Terms of Use
Table of Contents

Terms Of Use

2

Risks

4

Taxation

5

Forward looking statements

6

Disclaimer of Warranties

7

Limitations Waiver of Liability

7

1

Terms Of Use
Each app portfolio is a profit sharing market hosted on a decentralised exchange.
The terms of collaboration and exchange are managed by blockchain software, also
known as Decentralised Applications (DAPPs). Each portfolio’s value is represented in
digital tokens. These tokens are part of a DAPP.
SmartCoins and user issued assets are created by a DAPP. The OpenLedger
(DEX), built on Bitshares, is a larger decentralised autonomous application. These
various portfolio token reserves are smaller DAPPs that run on the OpenLedger’s DEX.
Tokens are the conduits into any app portfolio’s profit sharing ecosystem.
The term permissions refers to the necessary on-ramps to compliancy. Such
requirements allow participants to interact in an environment where laws can be
enforced. For example, each portfolio reserve of tokens will maintain a whitelist for each
portfolio’s respective market. All tokens featured on Apptrade’s app portfolio
marketplace will adhere to a baseline of requirements necessary to protect customers.
The type of tokens featured via app portfolios will be standardized to maximize
security and improve accountability. Apptrade’s goal is to standardize a particular set of
terms for all app portfolio tokens on ​www.Apptrade.io​ . Apptrade is creating a turnkey
solution that token sellers and their sponsors can rely on. Having a preset standard
helps groups create their own supply of tokens through app portfolios without having to
spend on R&D.
Supply and demand will guide policy. Apptrade acts as an objective facilitator to
the flow of resources. The terms of all token creation are set forth in code existing on
the Bitshares blockchain. Nothing in this explanation of terms or in any other document
or communication may modify or add any additional obligations or guarantees beyond
those set forth in a DAPP’s code. Any and all explanatory terms or descriptions are
merely offered for educational purposes and do not supercede or modify the express
terms of any DAPP’s code set forth on the Bitshares blockchain; the code controls and
sets forth all terms of all possible portfolio token creation.
Important Disclaimer: ​Holding tokens does not represent or constitute an equity
ownership stake, share, or equivalent in any public or private company, corporation, or
other entity in any jurisdiction. Tokens are only for use in connection with DAPPs under
the terms of any DAPP’s code and do not entitle any holder of tokens to any additional
rights with respect to any other corporation, company, or entity in any jurisdiction.
2

When you sign up on ​www.Apptrade.io​ you are agreeing that you are taking part
in the token marketplace under the terms set forth in each DAPP’s code at your own
risk. If you are entering a token sale for another entity or any third party, such as any
company you work for, you warrant that you have legal authority to bind that entity to
these terms as set forth in each token’s contract code.
By creating tokens through interaction with OpenLedger and Apptrade you
expressly agree to all of the terms and conditions set forth in their terms. If you do not
understand or do not agree to those terms, you should not create tokens or participate
in any app portfolio’s token sale.
The use and creation of tokens is associated with significant financial risk,
including using experimental software. This document does not constitute a prospectus
of any sort. It is not a solicitation for investment and does not pertain in any way to an
offering of securities in any jurisdiction. The Bitshare’s open sourced software
documemtation is currently available at ​https://docs.bitshares.org//index.html​.
By interacting with apptrade.io and creating tokens you:
● Represent and warrant that you have an understanding of the usage and
intricacies of cryptographic tokens, and other blockchain-based software
systems.
● Represent and warrant that you waive your right to participate in a class action
lawsuit or a classwide arbitration against any entity involved with the creation of
app portfolios and tokens.
● Represent and warrant that you take sole responsibility for any restrictions and
risks associated with the creation of tokens as set forth below.
● Represent and warrant that you are not exchanging tokens for any illegal
purpose within your jurisdiction.
● Represent and warrant that you understand that token creation does not involve
the purchase of shares or equivalent in any existing or future public or private
company, corporation, or other entity in any jurisdiction.
● Represent and warrant that you understand that there is no guarantee
whatsoever on tokens, express or implied, to the extent permitted by law, and
that tokens are created on an “as is” basis.
You further agree to accept sole risk for the creation of app portfolios. You also
recognize that blockchain softwares are continuously being developed.

3

Risks
The creation of tokens carries with it significant risk. Prior to creating a supply of
tokens, carefully consider the exemplary and non-exhaustive list of risks set forth below
and to the extent necessary, consult a lawyer, accountant, and/or tax professional prior
to creating and holding tokens through a DAPP.
1. Risk of Security Weaknesses in Bitshares Software
The idea of profit sharing with blockchain tokens is experimental in nature. There is a
risk that, as an open source project, any contributor to the token software could
introduce weaknesses or bugs into the token software, causing the loss of value of the
tokens in one or even all of the accounts.
2. Risk of Weakness in the DAPP’s underlying blockchain, and/or Bitshares Network.
The token’s software is itself based on the Bitshares blockchain. There is a risk that as
an open source project, any contributor to the Bitshares blockchain could introduce
weaknesses or bugs into the Bitshares software, causing the loss of tokens in one or
more or even all of the token holder’s accounts.
3. Risk of unforeseen attack vectors
The field of digital cryptography is very new and for this reason, there is a risk of
unforeseen attack both in terms of the underlying cryptographic protocol that backs the
functioning of DAPP as well as 'game theory' related vectors which have not been
documented to date. Both these vectors represent a risk that could lead to the loss of
tokens in one or more or even all of the token holder’s accounts.
4. Regulatory risks
Blockchain technology and Bitshares are improving access to value between individuals
and/or companies, some still to be imagined and implemented. As with the appearance
of cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, it is very likely that specific regulations will be set in
different jurisdictions targeting blockchain technology and more specifically token sales.
These regulations may or may not be DAPP friendly and some might even forbid any
relationships between an individual or company and a DAPP.

4

Taxation
No party involved with the creation of tokens makes any representations
concerning the tax implications of the creation of tokens or the possession or use of
tokens. Token holders bear the sole responsibility to determine if the creation of tokens
or the potential appreciation or depreciation in the value of tokens over time has tax
implications for the token holder in their home jurisdiction. Users create tokens with their
own actions. Third parties or individuals associated with the creation of tokens are not
responsible for any tax liability associated with or arising from the creation of tokens.
Cryptocurrencies and crypto assets may ultimately be converted into local fiat,
via any withdrawal gateway linked to a traditional banking institution. It could be subject
to capital gains. However converting existing cryptocurrencies into other crypto products
could be treated with a whole new set of policies. These terms do not represent any
form of legal advice or recommendation.
Converting the value of tokens into other crypto assets would have to be treated
under a new framework. Any participation may lead to an eventual best practices
framework that can continue to improve the transparency and security that Apptrade.io
aims to achieve.

5

Forward looking statements
This description contains statements that are, or may be deemed to be, “forward
looking statements” which are prospective in nature. These forward looking statements
may be identified by the use of forward looking terminology such as “outlook”, "plans",
"expects" or "does not expect", "is expected", "continues", "assumes", "is subject to",
"budget", "scheduled", "estimates", "aims", "forecasts", "risks", "intends", "positioned",
"predicts", "anticipates" or "does not anticipate", or "believes", or variations of such
words or comparable terminology and phrases or statements that certain actions,
events or results "may", "could", "should", “shall”, "would", "might" or "will" be taken,
occur or be achieved. Such statements are qualified in their entirety by the inherent
risks and uncertainties surrounding future expectations.
Forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather on
current predictions, expectations, beliefs, opinions, plans, objectives, goals, intentions
and projections about future events, results of operations, prospects, financial condition
and discussions of strategy. By their nature, forward looking statements involve known
and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond anyone's control.
Forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and may
and often do differ materially from actual results. Important factors that could cause
these uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the “Risks and
uncertainties” of this document. None of the third parties provide any representation,
assurance or guarantee that the occurrence of the events expressed or implied in any
forward-looking statements in this document will actually occur. Token holders are
cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements which only
apply as of the date each Apptrade account is created.
All third parties involved with app portfolios and their affiliates expressly disclaim
any intention, obligation or undertaking to update or revise any forward looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. The
making of this document does not constitute a recommendation regarding any
securities.

6

Disclaimer of Warranties
The user expressly agrees that the user is creating and holding tokens at the
user’s sole risk and that tokens are created on an “as is” basis without warranties of any
kind, either expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, warranties of title or
implied warranties, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose ( except only to the
extent prohibited under applicable law). Without limiting the foregoing, none of the third
parties or individuals associated with any token creation warrant that the process for
purchasing tokens will be uninterrupted or error-free.

Limitations Waiver of Liability
User acknowledges and agrees that to the fullest extent permitted by any applicable
law, user will not hold third parties or individuals associated with any token creation
liable for any and all damages or injury caused by or related to use of, or inability to use,
Tokens or the platform under any cause or action of any kind in any jurisdiction,
including without limitation, actions for breach of warranty, breach of contract or tort
(including negligence) and that none of the third parties or individuals associated with
token creation shall be liable for any indirect, incidental, special exemplary or
consequential damages, including damages, including for loss of profits, goodwill or
data, in any way whatsoever arising out of the use of, or inability to use, or creation of,
or inability to create, DAPP tokens.user further specifically acknowledges that the third
parties or individuals associated with a token sale are not liable, and user agrees not to
seek to hold any of the third parties or individuals associated with the creation of tokens
liable for the conduct of third parties, including other creators of tokens, and that risk of
creating and using tokens rests entirely with the user.

7

