WHITEPAPER
Revision 1.6 / August 7, 2017

Contents

Contents
1. Introduction
2. Key technologies
2.1 Proof-of-stake
2.1.1 Comparison of POW and DPOS
2.1.2 Encryption
2.1.3 Blocks and block creation
2.1.4 Coins and forging process
2.1.5 Nodes
2.1.6 Transactions: fees and processing time
2.2 SegWit
2.2.1 Overview
2.2.2 Security
2.2.3 Block size and network capacity
2.2.4 Malleability and Smart Contracts
2.2.5 Lightning Network
3. Key features
3.1 Wallet
3.2 Cloud mining
3.3 Low energy consumption
3.4 Agility and cost-eﬃciency
4. Risks and risk management
4.1 Security: attacks and hard forks
4.2 Inﬂation
4.3 Centralization
5. Micropayments
5.1 Pay-As-You-Go
5.1.1 Advantages
5.1.2 Disadvantages
5.2 Prepay
5.2.1 Advantages
5.2.2 Disadvantages
5.3 Postpay
5.3.1 Advantages
5.3.2 Disadvantages
5.4 Future of micropayments
5.5 ATB Coin: solution for micropayments
6.Conclusion

WHITEPAPER

Introduction

1. Introduction
“Imagine a technology that could preserve our freedom to choose for
ourselves and our families, to express these choices in the world, and to
control our own destiny, no matter where we lived or were born. What new
tools and new jobs could we create with those capabilities? What new
business and services? How should we think about the opportunities? The
answers were right in front of us, compliments of Satoshi Nakamoto.”
From Blockchain Revolution: How the Technology Behind Bitcoin Is Changing Money, Business, and the World
by Don Tapscott and Alex Tapscott2

https://www.amazon.com/Blockchain-Revolution-Technology-Changing-Business/dp/1101980133

1

1

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Introduction

Since the introduction of Bitcoin, blockchain technology has grown by leaps
and bounds. Blockchain has allowed not only cryptocurrencies to flourish but
has allowed traditional sectors such as financial institutions to utilize this
technology. A sharp rise in price and usage of Bitcoin as well as other
cryptocurrencies like Ethereum, Ripple, NEM, Litecoin, Dash, Monero — has
shown the world that the global ﬁnancial system is ready for a change. The
change that will take the industry to a whole new level where transparency,
data integrity, and decentralization will become the main pillars of its growth.
Bitcoin is the most known and valued cryptocurrency by the market
capitalization. Altcoins is a collective name for all other cryptocurrencies, and
they have been diluting Bitcoin‘s market share in recent times. Blockchain has
been the dominant design of peer-to-peer crypto currencies. However,
blockchain technology is still relatively young, and have the potential for
exponential growth, leading to new offerings in the market.
The ATB Coin is one of such new offerings. Its state of the art solution is built
around most advanced technological capabilities of SegWit & Lightning
Network to deliver blazing fast, secure and near-zero cost payments to anyone
in the world. It is designed to overcome well-known inefficiencies within
government central banks and other crypto currencies. It induces transactions
that are fully secure, private and anonymous.
However, such a rapid upward trend in the popularity of cryptocurrencies came
with its drawbacks that may threaten the further integration of the digital,
decentralized currencies:
1. Increasing number of attacks and forks
2. Double spending
3. Poor network security
4. A limited number of available coins
5. Increasing complexity of coin mining
6. Slow transaction processing
7. Increasing transaction fees
8. Price ﬂuctuations
9. Lack of malleability within the network
The solution to the problems mentioned above is ATB (Alternative Technology
Base) Coin. ATB Coin is an innovative decentralized cryptocurrency
incorporating the advanced technologies that tailor the needs of primary
market players - users, investors, and business owners.

2

2

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Key technologies

2. Key technologies
Blockchain technology is the foundation of crypto currency and is the next
“industrial revolution.” It is a decentralized ledger system with enhanced
security, is simple in design and inexpensive to operate. This system allows for
transactions to be done with complete accuracy because it is a fusion of
computer peer-to-peer (p2p) technology, cryptography and database
systems.
The fusion of these technologies leads to a data-storage system that is
immutable and irreversible, meaning that transactions cannot be modified
after signed and added to a block chain. Deals become final, and there is no
double spending. Cryptography not only utilized for encrypting messages on
the ledger but is also used to sign the transactions of users and to prove
these transactions are valid. With cryptography, blockchain does not require
extra security solutions to protect the authenticity of operations.
Blockchain‘s decentralized and p2p nature means that the ledger eliminates
the need for a data-center and a disaster recovery center (DRC). The result is
that the ledger will always be up and running.
ATB Coin incorporates the best features of POS-based crypto currencies. ATB
Coin's users can achieve better decentralization, transparency, privacy, and
cost-eﬃciency in their financials. Low energy consumption, ease of use, and
better network participation incentives work in line with doubled network
capacity, smart contracts, lightweight wallet, and cloud mining to provide
people from all over the world a worthwhile, stable, and more reliable way of
handling their ﬁnancial needs.

3

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Proof-of-stake / POW and DPOS Comparison

2.1. Proof-of-stake
The ﬁrst crypto currencies based on the Proof-of-stake algorithm, or POS,
appeared in 2012 with Peercoin, followed by Emercoin in 2013, and NXT and
BlackCoin in 2014. The primary objective of the cryptocurrency blockchain
algorithm is to achieve the distributed consensus within the network that is
secured by a significant number of nodes.
POS algorithm designed as a more eco-friendly, resource eﬃcient, and
reliable alternative to crypto currencies based on the Proof-of-work
algorithm, or POW, that require massive amounts of energy to maintain the
proper functioning and growth of the network.
Coins of POS-based crypto currencies are created through staking. In other
words, all nodes in the network that possess any amount of coins in their
wallet and keep the node online are automatically included in the coin
forging pool and are therefore are eligible to create and sign blocks, securing
the distributed consensus.
In May 2017 the world’s second largest cryptocurrency, Ethereum,
announced that it would make a transition to a Proof-of-stake algorithm by
the end of 2017.

2.1.1. POW and DPOS Comparison
As mentioned above, the only thing that nodes within a POS cryptocurrency
need to do to is to maintain the security of the network itself. Therefore one
needs to have a certain amount of coins in the wallet and keep the wallet
online to be eligible to earn. This mechanism eliminates the human factor in
the mining/forging process and helps to avoid spending massive amounts of
electricity on creating coins. It is the backbone and the most laconic property
of the Proof-of-stake algorithm.
Apart from the Proof-of-Stake, two other algorithms exist in the
cryptocurrency world. The Proof-of-Work (POS) and Delegated Proof-ofStake (DPOS) algorithms, which are both meant to help blockchain reach a
distributed consensus and maintain the integrity of the network.

http://www.coindesk.com/ethereums-big-switch-the-new-roadmap-to-proof-of-stake/

3

4

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

POW and DPOS Comparison

Distributed consensus, is a term widely used in computer science and crypto
currencies. It should be interpreted as a mutual consensus among the
majority of its users, on whether the data about the transaction in the last
block is valid. If this is the case, the distributed consensus is achieved, and the
block will be successfully signed, ensuring proper functioning of the network.
If the data in the last block is false, then distributed consensus among active
members of the network will not be reached, and therefore this block will not
be signed, avoiding the possibility of various kinds of attacks that jeopardize
the system integrity or allows for double spending.
In cryptocurrencies that use POW the distributed consensus in the network is
reached with the help of its active members, or miners, who need to use real
computing produced by hardware to hash blocks and mine coins. Though this
may seem like the most robust and true-to-life method of reaching the
distributed consensus, actually it leads to several serious problems:
1. It requires massive amounts of energy due to the increasing diﬃculty
to mine coins.
2. Miners are required to purchase expensive equipment to survive in
the ever-growing mining market. The hardware gets outdated fast and
eventually ends up at a landﬁll site, harming the environment even more.
3. Such system leads to the appearance of miner monopolies that tend
to negatively inﬂuence the commission fees and transaction processing times
and also leaves the possibility of carrying out a 51% attack.
Delegated Proof-of-stake, or DPOS, is the latest blockchain algorithm which is
currently used by cryptocurrencies like BitShares. In its essence, it’s very
similar to POS, but it still has quite a few changes that make it diﬀerent from
the Proof-of-stake algorithm.

5

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

POW and DPOS Comparison/ Encryption

Network nodes in DPOS cryptocurrencies create coins in the same way as it is
in the POS-based ones - by storing the currency in the wallet. However, all
necessary decisions within the network in DPOS cryptocurrencies are
performed via the results of elections organized by the members of the
network.
At ﬁrst sight, this mechanism may look more democratic and transparent, but
it also makes the system complicated, potentially less secure due to the
human factor involved, and decreases the user participation rate, in this way
causing centralization concerns.

2.1.2. Encryption
ATB Coin uses several cryptographic algorithms for purposes of ensuring the
blockchain integrity and safety of its users’ coins.
The ﬁrst one is ECDSA, a public key cryptography algorithm, which is
associated with every coin in the system utilizing a public key, private key,
and signature so that every node of the blockchain can verify the coin
ownership.
The second one is a robust one-way SHA-256 encryption algorithm, which is
included in SHA-2 family of cryptographic hash functions and is considered to
be a classic in the majority of the world’s cryptocurrencies.
The SHA-256 hash function is used to turn input data of any size in the
blockchain into a string of 32 bytes that is impossible to reverse or predict. In
the case of an attack upon which some or all of such input data is changed,
the hash associated with this data will be changed aswell, making it
impossible to create a diﬀerent block of data with the same hash.
These two cryptographic algorithms ensure stable functioning of the ATB
Coin blockchain network where the ownership of coins can be easily veriﬁed,
and distributed consensus is achieved without the risk of double spending.

6

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Blocks and block creation / Coins and forging process

2.1.3. Blocks and block creation
Since ATB Coin is a cryptocurrency based on POS algorithm, the creation of
blocks is carried out through a provision of proof that the active network
node possesses a certain amount of coins and therefore can participate in the
generation of blocks.
If the active network node—meaning that it is a user who keeps their wallet
open—possesses a certain amount of coins, it will be eligible to enter the
block creation process by sending the coins to itself and proving their
ownership.
Selection of the creator of the next valid block is made by using deterministic
randomization formulas that take both the stake size and the lowest hash
value into account, therefore avoiding centralization of the cryptocurrency by
not letting the wealthiest members of the network infinitely accumulate
their capital.

2.1.4. Coins and forging process
Based on the POS algorithm, an active node of the blockchain network in
ATB Coin is randomly selected. The choice is based on their stake size. The
appropriate wallet will receive a daily reward or ROI for the contribution to
achieving the distributed consensus.
To fight the inﬂation and the market glut, two years after the ICO and
creation of the genesis block the daily ROI will decrease twofold. The
reduction in the reward by two times will be repeated every two years until
the daily compensation rate reaches almost zero.
As a POS cryptocurrency, ATB Coin will start with an open ICO. During the
ICO anyone will be able to purchase ATB Coin tokens and also can receive a
certain number of ATB Coins as a bonus. The total number of coins that are
oﬀered to the public during the ICO equals a number of coins in the genesis
block, which is 50 000 000 ATB.

7

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Nodes / Transactions: fees and processing time

2.1.5. Nodes
The POS algorithm doesn’t require massive amounts of electricity wasted on
hashing blocks that are used to store a large amount of data. The nodes in
ATB Coin are lightweight and use SPV, standing for the Simpliﬁed Payment
Veriﬁcation mode, which allows users to download only a part of the
blockchain relevant to their node instead of downloading the whole copy of
blockchain.

2.1.6. Transactions: fees and processing time
If we take an average transaction processing time in a POW-based
cryptocurrency and compare it with the same metrics in a POS-based one, we
shall see that the POS algorithm processes the transactions at least two times
faster.
Thanks to the usage of SegWit, on average each block is four-times more
efficient than the regular one. On top of that, the ATB Coin network creates a
new block within 2.5 minutes against 10 minutes in POW-based crypto
currencies.

Worthwhile to mention is that the capacity to perform multiple transactions
inside the ATB Coin network is just sensational in the case of using the
Lightning Network protocol - a side-chain payment solution on top of the
original blockchain. The Lightning Network is an ideal platform for the
micropayments industry.

8

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Transactions: fees and processing time / SegWit

When it comes to the transaction fees, they are estimated to be at least ten
times lower than those in cryptocurrencies powered by the POW algorithm.
Such a signiﬁcant decrease in the transaction costs is possible thanks to a
lack of physical mining of coins in POS algorithm and well-balanced
distributions of coins among all active members of the network.

2.2. SegWit
Since more and more people are currently using crypto currencies for their
everyday ﬁnancial needs, the overall number of transactions grows very
rapidly. SegWit is created to improve blockchain scalability by increasing the
block size limit thus decreasing the transaction processing time and fees.
The SegWit technology also enables execution of Smart Contracts as well as
of side chain solutions like Lightning Network mentioned above.
Due to the blockchain properties, a txid (transaction id) of a block also
includes information on the previous inputs and outputs of coins and wallets
associated with this transaction occupying up to 60% of the block size. The
increasing numbers and size of block slow down and overload the network
itself, leading to slower processing times and higher fees.

9

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Overview / Security

2.2.1. Overview
SegWit allows for writing up to 4MB into a single block. The scriptSig data is
moved out of the transactions and blockchain, both enhancing the network
performance and preventing any possibility of malleability attacks.
Apart from this, SegWit provides a broad range of other important features
like increased P2SH security (P2SH encryption key length is 256 bits now),
linear scaling of sighash operations, reducing UTXO growth, overall eﬃciency
gains, and so on.
Segregated Witness, which is most often called SegWit, is a proposed update
to the Bitcoin protocol that was oﬃcially released October 6, 2016, in version
0.13.1 of the Bitcoin Core and this technology is fully implemented in ATB
Coin.

2.2.2. Security
All blockchain networks let their users perform a kind of escrow transactions
called multisig. Multi-signature transactions require up to ﬁve signatures from
diﬀerent parties to sign a transaction.
Currently, the majority of crypto currencies use pay-to-script-hash (P2SH)
protected by 160-bit HASH160 algorithm that is known to have loopholes,
letting a corrupt multisig transaction member to steal money. In SegWit this
vulnerability is ﬁxed by using HASH160 only to sign single key transactions. All
the multisig transactions are hashed using the 256-bit SHA256 algorithm.

10

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Block size and network capacity

2.2.3. Block size and network capacity
Initially, the block limit size of 1MB was set by Satoshi Nakamoto in 2010 in
Bitcoin for purposes of protecting the network from DoS and spam attacks,
but since then it became the default value used by the majority of world’s
cryptocurrencies.
Also, an increased block limit size that is introduced in SegWit improves the
overall security of the network and therefore allows for a seamless and
safe implementation of Smart Contracts and a broad range of second layer
solutions.
Since this limit leads to slower transaction approval time and higher
transaction fees within a busy blockchain network, leading to lower overall
performance, SegWit increases this limit to up to 4MB per block by
excluding witness data, scriptSig and scriptPubKey ﬁelds with the
signature data that occupies 60% of the transaction size, out of the
transaction.

11

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Block size and network capacity / Malleability and Smart Contracts/ Lightning Network

With the new block weight algorithm that SegWit proposes, all non-witness
data in a block amounts 4 weight units per block and the witness data takes
1 weight unit per block in the same block. This constitutes a 4x increase in
the network capacity and performance.

2.2.4. Malleability and Smart Contracts
When a transaction is sent over the blockchain network, any node that
processes it can make minor changes to the signature data in the txid of
this transaction. These small changes cannot inﬂuence the input and
output transaction information meaning that it still will be sent and
received by the right people but it can make the txid information
unreliable, making it more diﬃcult to trace it within the blockchain.
Smart Contracts is a technology that adds specific logic to the
transaction and serves as an evidence of possession of claim over
something by someone (e.g. tangible/intangible funds and resources as
well as intellectual or any other property). Smart Contracts turn a
regular transaction into a powerful tool for accounting purposes.

2.2.5. Lightning Network
The Lightning Network is a solution that allows for sending instant
and near-zero cost transactions to one or more users of the network.
The idea behind the Lightning Network is to create payment channels
oﬀ the blockchain so that users can send an unlimited amount of
transactions between each other either by securing them with only
one ledger entry in the blockchain and using the blockchain as the
arbiter through Smart Contracts or by applying to a trusted third
party for escrow purposes.

https://cointelegraph.com/news/the-ongoing-bitcoin-malleability-attack

4

12

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Key features

3.Key features
Apart from the features peculiar to the Proof-of-Stake algorithm, ATB Coin
is beefed up with SegWit, and Lightning Network protocols. On top of that,
ATB Coin boasts a wide array of features such as user-friendly and
lightweight wallets, cloud mining availability, forging incentives, and so
much more. We've implemented this all to make our product convenient for
everyone regardless of their ﬁnancial needs.

13

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Wallet / Cloud mining

3.1. Wallet
ATB Coin comes with an array of wallets for desktop, iOS, Android, and web
applications. ATB Wallets provide all necessary features for the comfortable
daily use of the cryptocurrency and do not require much space on your PC or
smartphone.
The outstanding advantage of the ATB Wallet is that it requires a very tiny
amount of space for its installation compared to the Bitcoin Core and
therefore can be used by anyone, anywhere, and anytime. ATB Coin is
designed over a Proof-of-stake algorithm, which makes full node wallets a
thing of the past.
Since there’s no physical mining of coins required and the distributed
consensus is achieved via proof of possession of coins in one’s wallet ; you are
not obliged to download the full copy of the blockchain to use ATB Coin,
resulting in less disk space usage.

3.2. Cloud mining
As it was mentioned above, users of ATB Coin do not need to constantly hash
data using costly equipment that consumes a lot of electricity. However, to
enter the coin forging pool and be able to earn with ATB Coin, one simply
needs to keep the wallet online to be considered an active blockchain node.
Aforementioned is deﬁnitely a better and a lot more eco-friendly way of
maintaining the blockchain integrity and security yet it might likewise lead to
some little unnecessary power spending. This is one of the reasons why ATB
Coin oﬀers a cloud mining service available for all of its users irrespective of
whether they are just regular users or big investors.
The cloud mining services will be provided by ATB Coin and several other
trusted third-party companies so that the cryptocurrency members can enjoy
a wide selection of payment options and service conditions tailored especially
to their needs

14

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Low energy consumption / Agility and cost-eﬃciency

3.3. Low energy consumption
According to publicly available statistics, currently, some of the POW based
cryptocurrencies use up to 14.18 TW/h of electricity annually, which is
comparable to the total power consumption in the entire country of
Slovenia.

A rapid growth of any POW based crypto currency will undoubtedly lead to
a sustainable increase in electricity consumption

3.4. Agility and cost-eﬃciency
Since ATB Coin is based on the Proof-of-Stake algorithm, which was also
developed to make cryptocurrencies more resource eﬃcient and eco-friendly,
our users don’t need to buy expensive equipment also known as ASICs. Most
likely these ASICs get obsolete within just one year after purchase and
eventually end up at the rubbish dump.
It's a waste of massive amounts of electricity on performing unnecessary
calculations.

15

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Risks and risk management

4. Risks and risk management
Cryptocurrencies oﬀer a whole range of tools and measures that are meant
to contribute to the development of a more transparent, just, and open
global ﬁnancial market and ensure the security and growth of the investor's
capital.
Like any other complex and elaborate systems, cryptocurrencies as a thing
present certain ﬂaws and risks associated with any ﬁnancial instrument. In
the sections below we will explain such risks and talk about the ways of
balancing them and cutting their impact down to the reasonable minimum.

5

16

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Security: attacks and hard forks / Inﬂation

4.1. Security: attacks and hard forks
There are various kinds of attacks and vulnerabilities to which a crypto
currency can potentially be exposed. The most significant of these threats are
a majority attack (51% attack) that has to do with monopoly problems and a
double spending attack.
A most devastating attack can be performed when one of the nodes of the
blockchain possesses 51% or more computing power of the whole network
and therefore gains complete control over it. Such attacks may theoretically
take place in the POW-based cryptocurrencies only. In such a case the evildoer
needs to purchase some serious mining equipment with the total cost of more
than $15 billion. That sounds like a lot, but in fact, it is doable.
A 51% attack is not realistic in ATB Coin network for the two following
reasons:
1. ATB Coin is a POS-based cryptocurrency, the attacker will need to
possess at least 51% of all network resources. A hacker will need to purchase
at least 25.5 million of ATB Coins, which is 51% of the genesis block right after
launch.
2. Even if such an attack happens, it won’t be beneﬁcial for the attacker
himself. This attack will affect the market rate of the cryptocurrency
negatively, meaning that the hacker will be attacking himself and will suﬀer
from losses.
When it comes to double-spending attacks, in ATB Coin they are prevented by
confirming every transaction that a specified block contains. To be conﬁrmed
and considered as valid by the blockchain, a transaction needs to receive at 6
or more conﬁrmations.

4.2. Inﬂation
Due to the fundamentals of the POS algorithm that proposes a daily
reward in exchange for the user’s cooperation in achieving the distributed
consensus, all POS-based cryptocurrencies usually face inﬂation issues.

17

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Inﬂation / Centralization

Inﬂation risks in ATB Coin are minimal thanks to the relatively small amount
of coins in the genesis block. ATB Coin's genesis block contains only 50 million
in coins, and the reward will be decreasing by 50 percent every two years.
That will ensure a stable workflow for the new users of ATB Coin in the years
to come.

4.3. Centralization
Another issue for all crypto currencies irrespective of whether they are based
on POW, POS, or DPOS algorithm is centralization concerns.
Since it’s both illogical and too costly to perform a 51% attack for a POSbased cryptocurrency, the centralization of the network in ATB Coin is very
unlikely.
As an additional measure against centralization, the creator of the next valid
block in the ATB Coin blockchain will be selected using deterministic
randomization formulas. These formulas are based on the stake size and the
lowest hash values that will limit wealth accumulation possibilities and
ensure that the cryptocurrency doesn’t get centralized.

18

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Micropayments

5. Micropayments
A micropayment is traditionally defined as an online or mobile, real-time or
deferred, financial transaction below $12 amount. Micropayment is a small
online payment that is usually not feasible through traditional money
transfer mechanisms like credit cards due to the fees being a significant
percentage of the transaction.
Micropayments are used in a variety of contexts, from paying for access to a
single article to tipping someone on the Internet. You can charge customers
on a purchase-by-purchase basis for a range of digital goods, apps, including
access to news content, online music, TV shows & films, mobile recharges
and transit payments
In today's online world, there are three general models of managing
micropayments. One of the models, called pay-as-you-go, is what one might
consider "classic micropayments": a user is priced on the fly. This model
does not often work due to many reasons, and instead, two other models
have been proposed that attempt to solve the shortcomings of pay-as-yougo. The Prepay model and the Postpay accordingly. Each has its advantages
and disadvantages, with none of the models being perfect.

19

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Pay-As-You-Go / Advantages / Disadvantages
5.1 Pay-As-You-Go
With the pay-as-you-go model, Internet users are charged on the fly for
purchases that they would like to make. This means that as soon as the user
wants to purchase access to an article or some other virtual good, their credit
card will be charged for the amount of the transaction.

5.1.1 Advantages
Allows the user a pure a la carte experience. They only purchase what they
want, and they pay when they want to.
The merchant can market low cost virtual goods to a user who may otherwise
balk at paying a higher price for bulk access.
When credit card information is stored with the merchant, the low price of
individual micropayments may encourage the user to partake in “impulse”
buying, similar to how retailers put low cost candy bars, magazines, etc. in
check out lanes.

5.1.2 Disadvantages
Allows the user a pure a la carte experience. They only purchase what they
want, and they pay when they want to.
The merchant can market low cost virtual goods to a user who may otherwise
balk at paying a higher price for bulk access.
When credit card information is stored with the merchant, the low price of
individual micropayments may encourage the user to partake in “impulse”
buying, similar to how retailers put low cost candy bars, magazines, etc. in
check out lanes.

20

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Prepay / Advantages / Disadvantages

5.2 Prepay
With the prepay model, a customer authorizes the merchant to charge their
card for a certain amount, which is usually converted into a virtual currency.
That currency can then be used to purchase whatever that particular
merchant is offering online. An alternate form of prepaying eliminates the
online transaction and instead places gift cards in brick and mortar stores.
Customers can purchase these cards and enter unique codes on the back of
the card online to have their account credited for the amount they paid.
Prepay can also take the form of subscription models where users pay up
front for monthly or yearly access to certain content, such as newspapers
and premium content in online games.

5.2.1 Advantages
Paying a large sum up front makes the transaction worth it in terms of the
processing fees that get tacked on.
If physical gift cards are available, users can choose how to pay, which is
especially useful when the user does not have a credit or debit card to use
online.

5.2.2 Disadvantages
Merchants need to maintain a system that tracks how much credit every user
has on hand.
If the merchant has gift cards in brick and mortar stores, they must pay to
distribute them.
With subscription models of prepay, the a la carte experience is lost. Users
pay up front for access to everything, whether they want it or not.
Depending on the prepaid amounts available, users may not easily dish out
$10, $25, or $50 for a virtual credit as they would on a pay-as-you-go model.

21

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Postpay/ Advantages / Disadvantages

5.3 Postpay
In the postpay model, instead of paying up front or paying on the fly, users
instead pay after they decide to make a purchase, similar to more traditional
online shopping models. Postpay is an effective alternative to pay-as-you-go
due to microtransactions being aggregated rather than charged individually.
What usually happens is that a merchant will track a user's individual
microtransactions, and then after a certain amount of time where no more
transactions are made, the merchant will aggregate the individual purchases
and bill them as one amount.
Similar to prepay, postpay can also adopt a subscription model where users
gain unlimited access to certain features and are then billed a standard fee at
the end of the month. This is less common, however, than prepay
subscription models.

5.3.1 Advantages
Users do not need to pony up a larger sum of money to start making
purchases. The a la carte experience is preserved.
Aggregating payments can drastically reduce a number of transaction fees
that a merchant will pay.
The impulse buying that is in the pay-as-you-go model is also preserved in
postpay.

5.3.2 Disadvantages
Merchants need to create a system that tracks purchases and then attempts
to aggregate them thoughtfully to reduce transaction fees.
Users can still purchase only one item, say a 99-cent song, and then not
purchase anything else, leaving the merchant no choice but to process the
microtransaction by itself.
This does not allow for users without a credit or debit card to make a
purchase, as users can with prepay gift cards.

22

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Future of micropayments / ATB Coin: Solution for micropayments

5.4 Future of micropayments
Several companies such as Flattr and PayPal provide micropayment support
and solve specific use-cases. Cryptocurrency makes micropayments easy to
implement and send without involving any third-party to implement their
micropayment protocols.
Bitcoin fees make it hard to send fractions of a dollar as value, but this is still
possible with ATB Coin. The basic problem with micropayments is that it
requires a considerable fee to the third party (the centralized service) and
hence makes such transactions effectively expensive. Bitcoins and other
crypto currencies charge minimal transaction fees (it could even be free in
some cases), and that doesn't depend on the number of transactions. Hence
it offers a viable alternative for such transactions. The process involved is
much simpler and definitely avoids the headache of currency conversions.

5.5 ATB Coin: Solution for micropayments
There hasn’t been any innovation in online payment space in the past
decade. All online payment services, such as Dwolla and PayPal, are more or
less the same and work with your credit card or bank account or both. The
opportunity to create a system that can significantly cut down credit card
and bank fees to the payment networks can be a huge benefit for ecommerce and online retailers that operate on small margins would benefit
greatly from cost saving. ATB Coin is not centralized and does not depend
on any banks or credit card companies; thus, the transaction costs are much
much lower than those of the existing payment systems.
In the world of the Internet of Things, the use of ATB Coin can reduce
transaction costs and limitations of cash and card payments. This includes
any service or machine that relies on automated payment such as bus ticket
booths, vending machines, car rentals etc. With ATB Coin we have a truly
autonomous environment where two machines can interact and exchange
funds without human factor involved. For example, your car may have a
digital wallet that can be used to pay for gas, tolls, or any other automated
services.
The electronic payment space needs some innovation, and perhaps the time
is right for a digital currency such as ATB coin to disrupt the market and
bring the next wave of technology and startups.
5

23

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

Conclusion

6. Conclusion
This whitepaper has been prepared to provide the most detailed information
about ATB Coin concerning its key characteristics and features, the most
important technologies used in its development, and risks associated with it.
We have succeeded in ﬁnding out and establishing that the Proof-of-Stake
consensus ATB Coin is based on fact to be a more secure, just, and eco-friendly
as well as less corrupt and less diﬃcult to use in comparision to the Proof-ofwork algorithm.
At the same time, the latest technologies that ATB Coin is powered on like
SegWit and Lightning Network and the proprietary features like cloud mining
and forging incentives make it a truly agile, cost- efficient, and user-friendly
tool that can satisfy the needs for ﬁnancial freedom of any person
irrespective of their place of birth, technical competence, or social status.
Despite the potential of micropayment systems very few systems have been
successful as their acceptance is limited to certain communities such as
specific online games or social networks.
ATB coin is a new progressive crypto currency, which supports an unlimited
number of transactions between different devices at high speed with its
Lightning Network technology, which makes it a viable option for
micropayments. ATB Coin has already signed contracts with some big players
around the world, and we are ready to take the financial industry to the next
level.

24

PAGE

WHITEPAPER

www.atbcoin.com

Good for Business
Good for You

