 

White Paper
May 2017

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

2

Contents
Abstract

3

Problem

4

Solution

5

Project

6

Future

7

Token and subscription

8

Investing

9

Contacts

10

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

3

Abstract
Cryptocurrency markets are so vibrant and eventful nowadays that it’s hard to keep track of what’s
going on with every single coin. Crypto traders pour large amounts of eﬀort and time into
interpreting charts in diﬀerent ways, reading forums and Twitter feeds and gathering information
about coins from other sources in attempts to predict market trends and make profitable trades.
Crypto markets are volatile, making the task even harder. Shilling and other forms of disinformation
(like spreading FUD — fear, uncertainty, disorder), or even just false promises from coin developers
quite often stop traders on their quest for profit.

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

4

Problem
In 2017, a sharp surge of new crypto traders is boosting trading volumes and rates of almost every
alternative cryptocurrency (altcoins) and Bitcoin itself. That also makes prices of some altcoins more
volatile than before, while constantly growing Bitcoin rate keeps increasing traders’ stress levels.
Bitcoin is losing its share in total crypto market capitalisation despite of its increasing value. Market
capitalisations of some altcoins has already exceeded hundreds of millions of dollars, and that’s only
the beginning.
It’s impossible to factor in all the trends, events and subtleties that shape markets. Making a good
trade can be diﬃcult even for experienced traders, let alone newcomers. New traders don’t recognise
market trends and can’t make good trading decisions. For people who just have started to trade
cryptocurrencies, the “what to buy” problem is important now more than ever.

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

5

Solution
CryptoPing oﬀers a solution — an assistant bot that can hint that market situation changes and it
might be a good time to buy a certain altcoin. Bot’s market watching and analysis algorithms are
already tested and verified in practice. Users can easily sign up and activate the bot and start to get
signals from exchanges right away. Being experienced or new trader, no user gets any advantage over
other bot users, because all users receive all signals at the time. It’s up to traders to weigh the market
in signals’ context and make all trading decisions by themselves.
To cover most of the devices and platforms and deliver signals on time we’ve decided to use
messengers. Everyone uses them anyway, so the solution to signal delivery platform is already there:
the bot looks to users just like another chat contact. The bot has all necessary commands to manage
notifications, and the interface is friendly enough even for people who have no prior experience with
bots or trading.
Bot signals look simple yet have just right amount of information, despite of complex inner works of
the service itself. Users receive signal messages that include:
— coin ticker;
— link to an exchange that produced the signal;
— trading volume diﬀerence for the last hour;
— change to the coin rate to BTC;
— amount of signals on the coin for the last 7 days;
— coin market capitalisation value in USD.
This information proved to be suﬃcient to decide at a glance whether to look into a signalled coin.
All further analysis has to be performed by traders and the result will depend on their experience,
interests and goals.
Additionally we’re building a platform for social trading, that will be useful to both new and
experienced traders. Pro traders will be able to publish their trading results by signals daily, and new
traders will be able to follow pros and copy their trades for a small subscription fee.

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

Project
Project core has several parts that are responsible for:
— market data being assembled individually by coin;
— situation and trend analysis by coin;
— looking for similar coin behaviour in the past;
— making decisions on signal initiation;
— generating signals and tracking their results;
— sending signals to users;
— analysing signal quality and providing feedback for decision-making system.
The Telegram bot is a separate part of the project, integrated with the core. Slack bot is currently in
development. Being able to switch between signal delivery platforms is equally important for users
and us, the team, because recent messenger bans by governments in diﬀerent countries raise all
kinds of concerns.
We have plans to release a standalone application that will receive bot signals much like messenger
apps. The application will be integrated with the system core more closely, allowing us to develop
automatic trading functionality that will be a lot less vulnerable to hacking than existing serverbased trading apps.

6

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

7

Future
Early bot adopters have already discovered the quality and utility of bot signals. There are about one
thousand of altcoins out there, nobody can track everything, and the bot works just right: there are
numerous cases when it sent signals right before a coin pump or even long before that.
At the moment CryptoPing is just a bot that helps with tracking price movements and coin pumps
on several exchanges. We want it to evolve into a platform where every beginner in crypto markets
can get necessary information and community support, and start trading quickly.
When we say “support” we mean online tutorials, following experienced traders that secure from
most of risky trades, and market situation coverage that is actually on point.
We also have plans to develop an auto-trading app that will be released only after system algorithms
are meticulously re-tested and optimised. We want auto-trading to work in fire-and-forget mode,
and are looking forward to delivering steady profits to our users.
We are concerned that users without deep enough technical knowledge provide third-party trading
services with API keys from their accounts on exchanges. When third-party services get hacked, the
perpetrators gain access to users’ API keys and start trading to their benefit using accounts of others,
while regular users just lose assets. We will not store any keys on CryptoPing servers, thus accessing
them by hacking our systems will be impossible. All API keys will be stored on users’ devices only
and won’t be transmitted to CryptoPing services at all.

8

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

Token and subscription
Name

CryptoPing

Ticker

PING

Initial supply

10,000,000

Platform

Waves

We have chosen Waves platform for a reason. A lot of CryptoPing users are either new to crypto
markets or to trading in general, and we want our token to work on a simple platform that is easy to
understand and use, while Waves are very welcoming towards new people in crypto community. We
believe that it’s more important to grow the community than to race technologies and win
blockchain coolness competitions.
After ICO ends we will burn all the unclaimed tokens (they will be sent to an address without private
key, rendering them unusable). We will work towards adding the token to several exchanges and
introduce subscription-based access to CryptoPing after the token is added to any of the exchanges.
Subscriptions will be paid in PING tokens. We will burn 75% of subscription fees during 6 months
after subscription is introduced, and 25% of fees for a year after that.

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

9

Investing
ICO starts on May 25, 2017 at 00:00 UTC. The sale will continue for one month until June 25, 2017
00:00 UTC. Maximum total amount of investments is 1000 BTC. 9,000,000 PING tokens are
reserved for ICO, the 1,000,000 left is for 10% referral program payouts. Tokens can be purchased
for BTC, LTC, WAVES, DASH, ETH, ETC. All unclaimed tokens will be burned, and full report on
investments and resulting supply of tokens will be released.
For investments more than 100 BTC we oﬀer a 15% discount, that will result in getting 15% more
tokens for the same investment amount.
We will be assessing and verifying ICO results for a week after it ends. After that, all investors will be
able to withdraw their tokens to Waves wallets.
Adding PING to exchanges will follow after we introduce subscriptions to CryptoPing with tokens.
The buybacks and token burning will begin at the same time.

CryptoPing White Paper, May 2017

Contacts
Website

http://cryptoping.tech

ICO site

http://cryptoping.tech/ico

Roadmap

http://cryptoping.tech/roadmap

Twitter

@cryptoping

E-mail

admin@cryptoping.tech

Bitcoin Talk

https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1920653

10

