Token	Launch	White	Paper

May	2017

134834324.1

Table	of	Contents
Legal	Disclaimer……………………………………………………………………………….
Token	Launch	Summary…………………………………………………………………..
Overview	of	the	Giga	Watt	Project…………………………………………………..
Substance	of	the	Giga	Watt	Project……………………………………….
Project	History……………………………………………………………………….
Giga	Watt’s	Pricing…………………………………………………………………	
Market	Overview…………………………………………………………………..
Giga	Watt	Technology……………………………………………………………
Token	Launch	Details……………………………………………………………………….
Token	Launch	Overview…………………………………………………………
Token	Launch	Platform………………………………………………………….	
WTT	Smart	Contract………………………………………………………………
Payment	Terms……………………………………………………………………..
Distribution	and	Rates……………………………………………………………
Projected	Timeline…………………………………………………………………………..
Team……………………………………………………………………………………………….
Giga	Watt	Project	Team………………………………………………………..
Cryptonomos	Token	Launch	Team…………………………………………
Risk	Factors……………………………………………………………………………………..

2
134834324.1

3
4
5
5
6
6
8
9
12
12
16
16
17
19
20
22
22
23
25

Legal	Disclaimer
The	purpose	of	this	White	Paper	is	to	present	the	Giga	Watt	project	to	potential	token	holders	
in	connection	with	the	proposed	Token	Launch.	The	information	set	forth	below	may	not	be	
exhaustive	and	does	not	imply	any	elements	of	a	contractual	relationship.	Its	sole	purpose	is	
to	provide	relevant	and	reasonable	information	to	potential	token	holders	in	order	for	them	
to	determine	whether	to	undertake	a	thorough	analysis	of	the	company	with	the	intent	of	
acquiring	WTT	tokens.
Nothing	 in	 this	 White	 Paper	 shall	 be	 deemed	 to	 constitute	 a	 prospectus	 of	 any	 sort	 or	 a	
solicitation	for	investment,	nor	does	it	in	any	way	pertain	to	an	offering	or	a	solicitation	of	an	
offer	to	buy	any	securities	in	any	jurisdiction.	This	document	is	not	composed	in	accordance	
with,	 and	 is	 not	 subject	 to,	 laws	 or	 regulations	 of	 any	 jurisdiction	 which	 are	 designed	 to	
protect	investors.
Certain	 statements,	 estimates	 and	 financial	 information	 contained	 in	 this	 White	 Paper	
constitute	forward-looking	statements	or	information.	Such	forward-looking	statements	or	
information	 involve	 known	 and	 unknown	 risks	 and	 uncertainties	 which	 may	 cause	 actual	
events	or	results	to	differ	materially	from	the	estimates	or	the	results	implied	or	expressed	in	
such	forward-looking	statements.	
This	English	language	White	Paper	is	the	primary	official	source	of	information	about	the	WTT	
Token	Launch.	The	information	contained	herein	may	from	time	to	time	be	translated	into	
other	languages	or	used	in	the	course	of	written	or	verbal	communications	with	existing	and	
prospective	customers,	partners	etc.	In	the	course	of	such	translation	or	communication	some	
of	the	information	contained	herein	may	be	lost,	corrupted,	or	misrepresented.	The	accuracy	
of	such	alternative	communications	cannot	be	guaranteed.	In	the	event	of	any	conflicts	or	
inconsistencies	 between	 such	 translations	 and	 communications	 and	 this	 official	 English	
language	White	Paper,	the	provisions	of	this	English	language	original	document	shall	prevail.	

3
134834324.1

Token	Launch	Summary
WTT	 token	 is	 an	 Ethereum	 token	 representing	 the	 right	 to	 use	 the	 Giga	 Watt	 processing	
center's	 capacity,	 rent-free	 for	 50	 years,	 to	 accommodate	 1	 Watt's	 worth	 of	 mining	
equipment	power	consumption.	
Token	Launch	means	the	initial	sale	to	the	public	of	WTT	tokens.	
Token	Issue	means	a	release	of	a	specific	batch	of	WTT	tokens.	
	
Tokens	will	be	offered	for	60	days	starting	on	June	2,	2017	and	ending	on	July	31,	2017.
The	offering	will	be	open	to	the	public	globally.
Token	Sale	Volume:	

30	million	WTT	

Token	Issue	Volume:

34.5	million	WTT	1

Distribution	of	Tokens:	

For	every	100	tokens	sold	in	this	offering	15	additional	tokens	
will	be	issued	and	retained	for	the	team	members,	partners	and	
2
advisors
	
	

Token	Price	at	Issue:

Equivalent	of	USD	1-1.2,	depending	on	the	date	of	the	
acquisition

Website	link:	

https://cryptonomos.com/wtt/

Accepted	forms	of	
payment:

Bitcoin	(“BTC”),	Ether	(“ETH”),	wire	transfer

Presale	Start	Date:	
Presale	End	Date:	

May	19,	2017,	12:00	PM	PDT
June	2,	2017,	12:00	PM	PDT

Token	Launch	Start	Date: June	2,	2017,	12:00	PM	PDT
Token	Launch	End	Date:	 July	31,	2017,	12:00	PM	PDT
Initial	Token	Issue	Date:	

August	7,	2017,	12:00PM	PDT

1

	The	WTT	tokens	will	only	be	issued	based	on	actual	existing	facility	capacity.		More	WTT	tokens	will	be	issued	
as	the	facility	capacity	is	increased	through	future	build	outs.	
2
	See	Section	‘Distribution	and	Rates’	for	details.

4
134834324.1

Overview	of	the	Giga	Watt	Project
Substance	of	the	Giga	Watt	Project
The	Giga	Watt	Project	is	built	in	partnership	between	Giga	Watt,	Inc.	a	U.S.	company	(“Giga	
Watt”	or	“Company”),	which	offers	mining	hosting	services	at	its	Wenatchee,	WA	facilities,	
and	GigaWatt	Pte.	Ltd.,	a	Singapore	company	(“Partner”),	which	sells	mining	equipment	to	
customers	worldwide.	
Giga	Watt	is	a	full-service	mining	solution	provider.	Giga	Watt	offers	turnkey	mining	services	
or	 custom	 packages	 tailored	 to	 clients’	 needs:	 full	 range	 of	 mining	 services	 from	 hosting,	
maintenance	and	repair	to	private	blockchain	servicing.	The	Partner	offers	equipment	sales	
through	Giga	Watt’s	web	site3.	
Giga	Watt’s	standard	turnkey	solution	includes	purchase	and	delivery	of	mining	equipment	
through	 its	 Partner	 with	 its	 subsequent	 setup	 and	 hosting	 at	 Giga	 Watt’s	 facilities	 in	
Wenatchee,	WA,	with	hosting	fees	starting	as	low	as	7.5	USD	cents/kW/hour4,	zero	setup	fees	
(for	equipment	purchased	through	its	Partner)	and	uniquely	low	minimum	facility	entrance	
threshold	of	1	miner	of	any	model.	
Giga	Watt	can	host	a	wide	range	of	mining	equipment	models	commonly	used	by	miners;	
many	popular	models	are	offered	for	sale	by	its	Partner.	
Giga	Watt	also	offers	a	variety	of	custom	packages	and	services,	so	that	clients	who	own	their	
mining	equipment,	including	the	models	not	distributed	by	Giga	Watt’s	Partner,	can	still	host	
it	at	Giga	Watt’s	facility:	Giga	Watt	can	accommodate	any	ASIC	or	GPU-based	miners5.	
Giga	Watt	mines	all	scalable	cryptocurrencies.	The	decision	on	what	currency	to	mine	is	made	
by	 the	 customers	 who	 own	 the	 mining	 equipment.	 However,	 at	 this	 stage	 it	 is	 technically	
impossible	for	Giga	Watt	to	offer	all	available	options	to	retail	customers.	Currently,	retail	
customers	can	mine	only	BTC,	ETH,	and	LTC6.	
Your	choice	of	equipment	also	determines	which	mining	pool	you	can	use.	The	following	three	
pools	are	available	to	Giga	Watt’s	clients:	Slush	Pool	to	mine	bitcoins,	NanoPool	for	Ethereum	
and	LitecoinPool	for	LTC7.		
3

The	sales	and	delivery	of	equipment	is	offered	through	the	Partner's	sales	module	on	Giga	Watt’s	web	
site	.		
4
See	details	in	Giga	Watt’s	Pricing	section	below.
5
ASIC-based	miners	are	used	to	mine	bitcoin	or	litecoin,	GPU-based	equipment	is	used	to	mine	other	
altcoins.	
6
	Giga	Watt	is	working	on	expanding	this	list	of	currencies	in	the	future.
7
	List	of	mining	pools	may	be	revised	in	the	future.

5
134834324.1

A	miner	is	a	piece	of	equipment	operating	24/7	under	extremely	high	load,	so	failures	and	
breakdowns	 are	 quite	 common.	 Miners	 have	 to	 be	 shipped	 to	 service	 centers	 for	 repairs,	
which	takes	time,	especially	if	a	service	center	is	located	abroad,	and	every	day	of	downtime	
means	 a	 loss	 of	 mining	 profit.	 Giga	 Watt’s	 on-site	 service	 center	 minimizes	 the	 downtime	
(93.5%	minimum	uptime),	thereby	achieving	more	efficient	mining.
Although	it	is	common	practice	in	the	industry	not	to	disclose	the	details	of	mining	facilities,	
including	 their	 locations,	 in	 order	 to	 preserve	 trade	 secrets	 and	 shut	 competitors	 out	 of	
inexpensive	 power	 locations,	 Giga	 Watt	 believes	 in	 complete	 transparency.	 Years	 of	
experience	in	the	mining	business	demonstrate	that	running	a	competitive	company	takes	
more	than	the	ability	to	copy.	This	is	why	every	two	weeks	Giga	Watt	welcomes	visitors	to	its	
Open	House	in	Wenatchee	to	personally	tour	the	mining	facility.

Project	History
In	 2010,	 a	 software	 engineer	 and	 10-year	 veteran	 startup	 entrepreneur	 Dave	 Carlson	 first	
came	 across	 Bitcoin.	 He's	 been	 innovating	 in	 the	 space	 ever	 since.	 In	 2012	 he	 founded	
MegaBigPower	 with	 the	 goal	 of	 building	 the	 world’s	 first	 megawatt-scale	 Bitcoin	 mining	
center	 and	 identifying	 the	 key	 design	 parameters	 required	 to	 successfully	 scale	 up	 the	
business	 of	 Blockchain	 transaction	 processing.	 Soon	 it	 became	 one	 of	 the	 largest	 singleoperator	mines	in	the	world.
Now,	 MegaBigPower	 has	 re-branded	 as	 Giga	 Watt,	 which	 completed	 the	 construction	 of	
3	 mining	 facilities	 designed	 by	 the	 original	 MegaBigPower	 team	 and	 built	 under	 their	
supervision	(250kW,	1MW	and	1MW).	The	opportunity	to	use	these	facilities	is	now	being	
offered	 for	 tokenization.	 All	 three	 facilities	 are	 in	 operation	 and	 mostly	 rented	 out	 (actual	
numbers	are	placed	and	updated	regularly	here	-	https://cryptonomos.com/wtt/#/capacity).	
Giga	Watt	continues	to	build	new	units	with	its	own	resources8.

Giga	Watt’s	Pricing
Giga	Watt’s	pricing	structure	for	standard	turnkey	solution	consists	of	a	one-time	charge	for	
the	purchase	of	miners	and	daily	charges	for	hosting	services,	which	include:
-	 effective	electricity	cost;
-	 maintenance	fee;	and
8

See	details	in	the	Timeline	Section.	Tokens	are	issued	only	when	new	processing	center	capacity	becomes	
available	for	the	use	of	the	token	holders.

6
134834324.1

-	 facility	rental	fee.
Miners	Purchase:	
Four	 models	 of	 mining	 equipment9	 are	 currently	 available	 for	 purchase	 through	 GigaWatt.com:

Current	 prices	 and	 specifications	 are	 regularly	 published	 and	 updated	 at	 https://gigawatt.com/promo/prices.	

	

Hosting	fees10:

9

	The	list	of	models	may	be	revised	in	the	future.	Equipment's	description	may	be	revised	at	any	time	to	reflect	
the	manufacturer’s	specifications.	
10
	Hosting	fees	may	be	revised	in	the	future.	

7
134834324.1

Payments	for	hosting	services	(electricity,	maintenance,	rental	fees)	are	deducted	daily	from	
the	 mining	 rewards.	 Giga	 Watt	 does	 not	 charge	 any	 fees	 for	 transfers	 and	 withdrawals	 of	
funds;	however,	third	parties	may	charge	fees	to	transfer	funds	or	withdraw	them	from	the	
account	on	Giga	Watt’s	platform).
Clients	who	have	their	own	mining	equipment	can	host	it	at	Giga	Watt	at	the	same	hosting	
prices,	with	the	only	difference	of	paying	the	following	setup	fees:	USD	20	per	ASIC-based	
miner,	USD	40	per	GPU-based	miner11.	
Giga	 Watt's	 service	 center	 also	 provides	 an	 add-on	 paid	 option	 of	 emergency	 equipment	
repairs.	The	cost	of	service	depends	on	the	nature	of	performed	repairs.	

Market	Overview
Generally,	only	four	options	exist	on	the	market	for	cryptomining.	These	are:	(i)	to	operate	
miners	from	home;	(ii)	to	use	cloud	mining;	(iii)	to	host	your	own	miners	at	third-party	hosting	
facilities;	or	(iiii)	to	build	proprietary	mining	facilities.	The	first	two	options	are	intended	for	
private	party	mining,	and	the	latter	two	are	designed	for	businesses.	Now,	however,	through	
its	low	fees	and	extremely	low	minimum	entrance	threshold,	Giga	Watt	is	able	to	offer	a	fifth	
option:	competitive	services	which	could	be	used	not	only	by	the	clients	of	hosting	companies	
but	also	serve	as	an	alternative	to	home	mining,	cloud	mining	and	self-built	facilities.	

11

	Setup	fees	may	be	revised	in	the	future.	

8
134834324.1

Aside	 from	 the	 numbers,	 home	 mining	 is	 both	 expensive	 and	 demanding:	 it	 requires	 the	
owner's	constant	attention,	and	miners	are	quite	noisy,	which	many	find	objectionable.	Cloud	
mining	is	extremely	opaque:	As	a	rule,	users	have	no	knowledge	of	their	equipment’s	brand	
name,	model	number,	serial	number,	power	efficiency	and	consumption,	breakdown	of	costs,	
mining	pool	name	or	even	the	location	of	the	facility.	Self-built	farms	require	experts	and	fullfledged	business	operations,	which	is	risky:	any	mistake	may	cost	millions.	Third-party	hosting	
provides	 a	 viable	 alternative	 but	 there	 is	 currently	 a	 dire	 shortage	 of	 these	 services:	 the	
demand	greatly	exceeds	the	supply.	
What’s	more,	effective	electricity	cost	offered	by	Giga	Watt	is	currently	among	the	lowest	
feasible,	and	even	taken	together	with	other	fees	it	is	still	comparable	to	average	electricity	
rates	worldwide.	

Electricity	rates	worldwide	(USD	cents	per	kW/h)
All	of	this	makes	Giga	Watt’s	expansion	extremely	timely	and	relevant.

Giga	Watt	Technology
In	the	past	4	years,	Giga	Watt’s	team	built	5	air-cooled	mining	facilities.	This	experience	gave	
them	the	expertise	to	select,	build	and	employ	the	best	technologies	for	mining.	From	their	
experience	Dave	Carlson	and	his	team	discovered	that	large	monolithic	processing	centers	
are	not	optimal	for	mining.		
9
134834324.1

The	latest	technology	embodying	this	knowledge	at	Giga	Watt’s	facility	in	Wenatchee,	WA	is	
the	proprietary	Giga	Pods	solution	which	takes	advantage	of	the	mining	hardware's	extremely	
high	power	density,	avoids	active	cooling	consumption,	and	saves	power	for	high-efficiency	
mining,	 thus	 minimizing	 costs	 in	 every	 aspect	 of	 mining	 operations.	 Giga	 Pods	 can	
accommodate	 any	 type	 of	 miners.	 This	 model	 will	 be	 the	 cornerstone	 of	 Giga	 Watt’s	
expansion12.	
Giga	Watt's	distinctive	infrastructure	consists	of	numerous	autonomous	units.	This	approach	
offers	flexibility	in	the	processing	center’s	design	and	record-fast	expansion	of	its	capacity.	It	
also	minimizes	construction	costs	and	allows	to	utilize	first	units	while	new	units	are	being	
built.	
The	final	Giga	Pod	model	will	be	completed	before	the	end	of	the	Token	Launch.	Status	of	the	
construction	can	be	checked	here	-	https://cryptonomos.com/wtt/#/capacity.

12

	Actual	dimensions,	processing	power	and	other	characteristics	may	vary	slightly.

10
134834324.1

Size:	12'x48'	
Independent	fiber-optic	Internet	connection
High-pressure	 fans	 constantly	 circulate	 fresh	 air	 through	 the	 pod.	 Filtered	 air	 intakes	 are	
positioned	on	one	side,	with	exhaust	fans	on	the	other.	Rain	and	snow	“fallout	area”	provides	
cool	shade	at	intake.	Shade	placement	of	transformers	ensures	higher	efficiency	and	better	
longevity.
Single	 “mining	 wall”	 inside	 the	 pod	 ensures	 cool	 air	 circulation	 around	 miners.	 All	 heatproducing	equipment	is	arranged	next	to	exhaust	fans.
Grass-covered	 campus	 reduces	 dust,	 cutting	 down	 on	 intake	 filters	 maintenance	 costs.	
Arrangement	of	Pods	with	exhaust	fans	facing	each	other	(“hot	aisle-cold	aisle”),	in-line	with	
prevailing	wind	air	currents,	clears	warm	air	efficiently.	Network	autonomy	minimizes	outage	
risks	for	the	entire	operation.
Minimum	processing	power	of	each	Giga	Pod	is	750	kW.	Processing	power	depends	on	the	
equipment	each	Pod	is	designed	to	accommodate.	A	Pod	designed	to	accommodate	bitcoin	
miners	and	GPUs13	or	only	GPUs	can	have	minimum	processing	power.	A	Pod	designed	to	
accommodate	only	bitcoin	miners	can	house	up	to	1.75	MW,	but	requires	more	vents	and	
heavier-duty	inside	wiring	and	equipment,	which	will	proportionally	increase	the	construction	
costs.
The	 choice	 of	 the	 required	 processing	 power	 is	 determined	 by	 the	 market	 demand.	 Giga	
Watt’s	team	chooses	the	most	suitable	Pod	outfit	option	based	on	the	agreements	with	its	
current	and	potential	customers	and	their	equipment	hosting	needs.
13

	GPU	is	a	graphics	processing	unit	which	can	be	used	to	mine	Ethereum	and	certain	other	cryptocurrencies.

11
134834324.1

Token	Launch	Details
Token	Launch	Overview
Our	goal	is	to	offer	the	token	holders	access	to	both	an	exciting	new	world	of	technology	and	
the	 cryptocurrency	 mining	 business.	 Generally,	 mining	 turnover	 is	 comprised	 of	 three	
components:	(i)	electricity	cost;	(ii)	mining	hosting	cost;	and	(iii)	mining	net	profits.	Net	profits	
can	vary	greatly	depending	on	mining	equipment,	while	costs	are	constant	and	predictable	
and	consume	the	lion’s	share	of	the	potential	profits.		

	
This	infographic	is	an	example	based	on	the	calculations	from	April	28,	
2017.	The	numbers	may	vary	significantly	due	to	the	rate	fluctuations,	
mining	difficulty	increase,	and	other	factors.	

Under	the	existing	partnership	arrangements	between	Giga	Watt	and	its	Partner,	the	Partner	
is	 offered	 access	 to	 Giga	 Watt's	 facility	 at	 an	 unprecedentedly	 low	 hosting	 rate,	 which	
significantly	 increases	 mining	 rewards.	 Now,	 through	 the	 tokenization	 process,	 this	 low	
hosting	rate	can	be	passed	to	all	token	holders.		
Each	Giga	Watt	Project	Token	(WTT)	represents	the	right	to	use	the	Giga	Watt	processing	
center's	 capacity,	 rent-free	 for	 50	 years,	 to	 accommodate	 1	 Watt's	 worth	 of	 mining	
equipment	power	consumption.	So	to	provision	and	use	your	mining	equipment	rent-free,	
you	 will	 need	 to	 purchase	 the	 number	 of	 tokens	 equal	 to	 your	 equipment's	 power	
consumption:

Token	owners	can	use	this	capacity	to	accommodate	their	own	miners	or	to	rent	it	out	to	
other	 users.	 Essentially,	 this	 is	 access	 to	 professional	 mining	 –	 with	 an	 extraordinarily	 low	
12
134834324.1

entrance	threshold.	In	fact,	it	could	be	compared	to	membership	in	an	elite	private	mining	
club.	

Giga	Watt's	hosting	fee	typically	consists	of	effective	electricity	cost,	maintenance	fee	and	
rental	fee.	Token	owners	pay	zero	rent,	which	drastically	reduces	their	ongoing	costs:	their	
hosting	fee	is	comprised	only	of	effective	electricity	cost	and	maintenance	fee.	

	
To	be	used,	tokens	should	be	deposited	in	the	token	holder’s	account	with	Partner	placed	on	
Giga	Watt’s	website14.	When	token	holders	buy	miners	from	the	Partner	through	Giga	Watt’s	
website,	 miners	 available	 to	 them	 will	 be	 automatically	 displayed	 in	 their	 accounts	 and	
matched	 with	 their	 tokens.	 If	 at	 the	 time	 of	 token	 purchase	 a	 token	 holder	 already	 owns	
miners,	they	can	be	matched	with	tokens	manually15.	
Token	holders	can	also	rent	out	their	extra	tokens	if	they	have	more	tokens	than	they	need	
to	accommodate	their	miners.	
	

14

Token	holders	manage	their	tokens	through	the	Partner's	token	holder	account	module	on	Giga	Watt’s	
web	site.	
15
	Please	contact	the	support	team	for	manual	matching.

13
134834324.1

Renting	Tokens	
Token	holders	who	are	not	personally	interested	in	mining	or	have	spare	tokens	can	rent	them	
out	via	the	Partner's	rental	module	on	Giga	Watt’s	web-site16,	choosing	one	of	the	rental	fees	
set	by	Giga	Watt.	Token	rental	fees	are	the	same	as	the	Giga	Watt's	facility	rental	fees,	which	
are	4.20,	4.95,	5.7	and	6.45	US	cents/kW/h,	depending	on	the	number	of	miners	hosted	(see	
Section	"Giga	Watt's	pricing").	It	translates	into	daily	rental	income	of	¢0.1-0.15	per	token	
(¢37-57	per	year).	
To	take	advantage	of	this	option,	Giga	Watt’s	clients	who	do	not	have	their	own	tokens	and	
token	 holders	 who	 need	 additional	 tokens	 or	 have	 spare	 tokens,	 place	 orders	 seeking	 or	
offering	tokens	for	rent	on	the	Partner's	rental	module	on	Giga	Watt’s	website.	Each	order	
specifies	the	number	of	tokens,	the	rental	fee	which	the	token	holder	is	looking	to	receive	or	
which	the	client	has	to	pay	according	to	the	applicable	pricing	plan.	Token	holders	and	clients	
can	view	the	lists	of	these	orders,	sorted	by	their	value	to	the	viewer,	and	choose	a	suitable	
option	or	place	their	own	order.	
After	the	completion	of	the	Token	Launch,	hosting	of	miners	will	only	be	available	to	retail	
clients	through	tokens.	Consequently,	the	clients	who	do	not	own	tokens	will	have	to	rent	
them	from	their	owners.	Customers	who	had	their	miners	hosted	with	Giga	Watt	before	the	
start	of	the	Token	Launch	will	continue	to	be	served.	Their	hosting	fees	will	cover	the	rental	
fees	 for	 token	 holders	 who	 rent	 out	 their	 tokens.	 However,	 after	 the	 end	 of	 their	 miners'	
lifecycle	they	will	be	able	to	host	their	new	miners	with	Giga	Watt	only	if	at	that	time	there	
are	token	holders	willing	to	rent	out	sufficient	number	of	tokens.	
Rental	fees	are	deducted	from	their	mining	rewards	daily	and	paid	to	the	token	holder	via	a	
third	party	splitter.	Giga	Watt	and	Partner	do	not	charge	any	fees	for	the	use	of	the	rental	
module;	however,	third	parties	may	charge	fees	to	transfer	funds	or	to	withdraw	them	from	
the	token	holder’s	account	on	Giga	Watt’s	web-site.	
There	is	currently	a	dire	shortage	of	mining	hosting	services:	the	demand	greatly	exceeds	the	
supply.	 Furthermore	 Giga	 Watt’s	 pricing	 packages	 are	 suitable	 for	 technology	 companies,	

16

	The	matching	of	token	holders'	and	Giga	Watt's	clients’	orders	for	tokens	offered	or	sought	for	rent	is	offered	
through	the	Partner's	token	rental	module	on	Giga	Watt's	website.		

14
134834324.1

mining	farms,	cloud-mining	projects,	and	even	individual	miners.	All	of	this	makes	Giga	Watt	
extremely	timely,	relevant,	and	attractive	to	potential	renters	of	tokens.		
Access	to	capacities
WTT	can	be	used	from	the	very	first	date	of	issue.	Giga	Watt	facility's	unique	design	allows	
for	 record-fast	 expansion,	 and	 the	 first	 units	 can	 be	 operated	 while	 the	 new	 ones	 are	 still	
being	built.		
Each	Watt	of	capacity	of	each	unit	in	operation	is	an	opportunity	to	accommodate	miners	of	
token	holders.	Each	Watt	of	capacity	which	is	already	rented	out	to	the	client	who	has	no	
tokens	of	his	own	is	an	opportunity	to	rent	tokens	out.		
Currently,	all	three	existing	facilities	are	in	operation	and	mostly	rented	out.	Status	of	the	
construction	

and	

the	

capacity	

utilization	

can	

be	

checked	

here	

-	

https://cryptonomos.com/wtt/#/capacity.	
First	batch	of	tokens	of	5,400,000	WTT	(which	represents	5.4	MW	capacity	of	the	units	put	
into	operation	by	the	end	of	the	Token	Launch)	will	be	issued	immediately	following	the	end	
of	the	Token	Launch.	New	batches	of	tokens	will	be	issued	in	step	with	the	construction	of	
new	units.	Tokens	will	be	distributed	on	the	first	come,	first	served	basis.		
Summary
To	sum	up,	the	purchase	of	access	to		a	hosting	capacity	with	a	lower	hosting	rate	allows	you	
to	significantly	reduce	the	cost	of	your	mining	business,	thereby	increasing	mining	rewards,	
offers	more	flexibility	and	helps	balance	out	the	mining	risks:	hosting	capacity	can	be	rented	
out	 at	 any	 time,	 and	 rental	 income	 is	 much	 less	 affected	 by	 the	 cryptocurrency	 volatility.	
Additionally,	Giga	Watt	facility	has	a	50-year	lifecycle	(compared	to	2.5	years	for	miners,	due	
to	constant	increase	in	mining	difficulty)	and	is	suitable	for	any	Blockchain.	If	any	significant	
changes	occur	in	the	mining	world,	Giga	Watt	capacities	could	alternatively	be	used	to	set	up	
private	Blockchains.	
Expected	lifespan	of	WTT	tokens	is	50	years.	This	term	is	based	on	the	expected	lifespan	of	
the	Giga	Watt's	facilities.	

	
15
134834324.1

Token	Launch	Platform
Token	Launch	is	conducted	through	a	groundbreaking	Cryptonomos	platform.	
All	payments	for	WTT	tokens	will	be	collected	by	Cryptonomos.	Upon	the	completion	of	the	
Token	Launch,	on	August	7,	2017,	Cryptonomos	will	issue	and	distribute	its	initial	batch	of	
WTT	tokens,	with	subsequent	batch	issues	to	follow	upon	the	completion	of	new	capacity	
construction.	If	a	cap	of	30,000,000	WTT	tokens	sold	is	reached	before	the	scheduled	end	of	
the	Token	Launch,	Cryptonomos	at	its	own	discretion	may	issue	WTT	tokens	ahead	of	the	
specified	date	to	provide	access	to	the	facilities	built	by	that	time.	

WTT	Smart	Contract
WTT	is	an	Ethereum	token.	It	complies	with	and	extends	ERC-20	-	a	de-facto	standard	and	
widely	used	token	API.	WTT	Smart	Contract	guarantees:	
1.	Transparency
1.1.	Balance.	The	information	on	the	number	of	tokens	held	by	any	user	is	public.
1.2.	Transfers.	All	information	on	transfers	is	public	and	can	be	traced	back	in	time.
2.	Ownership
2.1	Scope.	Only	Ethereum	users	and	contracts	can	be	token	holders.
2.2.	Uniqueness.	Each	token	belongs	to	one	user-owner.	There	are	no	shared	tokens.
2.3.	Right	to	transfer.	A	token	can	be	transferred	to	another	user	only	by	the	direct	
command	of	its	owner	or	by	the	command	of	the	receiver	directly	authorized	by	the	
owner.	No	token	transfer	may	be	initiated	by	another	user.
3.	Token	Supply
3.1.	Exclusive	issue.	Only	one	user,	the	contract	owner,	can	issue	tokens.
4.	Contract	Management
16
134834324.1

4.1	Replacement.	The	contract	owner	can	relinquish	the	ownership	in	favor	of	any	
other	Ethereum	user	or	contract.
4.2	Blockade.	The	contract	owner	can	stop	or	resume	token	transfers	between	token	
holders	at	any	time.
5.	Miscellaneous
5.1	Recovery.	Any	call	to	the	contract	which	results	in	an	error	does	not	change	the	
users'	tokens	or	Ether	balance,	except	for	the	gas	spent	on	the	transaction.
5.2	Limits.	Maximum	allowed	tokens	in	circulation	and	may	be	set	and	are	limited	to.
Smart	contract	does	not	guarantee	the	following	("Uncertainty	Provisions"):
1.	User	validity.	An	account	with	positive	token	balance	may	or	may	not	be	a	real	Ethereum	
user	or	contract	and	therefore	may	not	have	a	private	key.	Tokens	transferred	to	such	users	
will	likely	be	lost.
2.	Ether	supply.	The	contract	prohibits	most,	but	not	all	means	by	which	Ether	could	be	sent	
to	it	by	users	who	are	not	contract	owners.
We	engage	independent	auditors	prominent	in	the	industry,	who	review	the	smart	contract	
code	line	by	line,	checking	for	any	security,	incentivization	or	other	concerns	regarding	the	
attack	surface.

	
	
Payment	Terms
WTT	tokens	will	be	available	for	purchase	on	pre-sale	starting	on	May	19,	2017	and	during	
the	Token	Launch	from	June	2,	2017	to	July	31,	2017,	unless	a	cap	of	30,000,000	WTT	tokens	
sold	is	reached	earlier.	

17
134834324.1

WTT	can	be	acquired	with	BTC,	ETH	or	fiat	currencies	via	Cryptonomos	platform.	Transfers	
can	be	made	from	any	BTC	or	ETH	wallet17.	For	transfers	of	USD	1,000	and	over	a	wire	transfer	
option	is	available18.	
Funds	are	credited	to	the	participants'	Cryptonomos	accounts	and	could	be	used	to	acquire	
tokens.	 Each	 account	 will	 have	 three	 wallets	 (USD/BTC/ETH).	 The	 minimum	 Token	 Launch	
entry	 threshold	 is	 1	 WTT	 (equals	 to	 1-1.2	 USD,	 depending	 on	 the	 day	 of	 acquisition).	 The	
minimum	entry	threshold	for	the	pre-sale	is	10,000	WTT	tokens	(equivalent	of	10,000	USD).	
Cryptonomos	accounts	will	be	accessible	several	days	before	the	start	of	the	Token	Launch	
(web-based	or	mobile	access).	Users	may	be	offered	an	option	to	sign	up	and	make	transfers	
to	their	Cryptonomos	accounts,	but	they	will	not	be	able	to	acquire	WTT	tokens	until	the	start	
of	the	Token	Launch	unless	they	purchase	WTT	Token	on	pre-sale	through	the	sales	team.	
Accounts	will	be	protected	from	unauthorized	access	by	a	two-factor	authentication	system.	
All	 funds	 collected	 through	 the	 pre-sale	 and	 Token	 Launch	 will	 be	 deposited	 in	 escrow.	
Original	payments	made	in	BTC	and	ETH	will	be	converted	to	USD	at	the	rate	effective	at	the	
time	when	the	rights	to	WTT	tokens	were	reserved.	
The	funds	will	be	released	from	escrow	in	step	with	the	completion	of	facilities.	
Once	the	Token	Launch	is	closed,	no	further	WTT	tokens	could	be	acquired.	On	August	7,	2017	
or	earlier,	as	described	above19,	the	first	batch	of	tokens	will	be	issued	to	participants20.	As	
soon	as	the	tokens	are	issued,	they	may	be	transferred	to	the	owner’s	account	on	Giga	Watt’s	
web-site	and	used	to	host	miners	or	to	be	rented	out.		
Giga	Watt	account	owners	get	their	mining	rewards	and	rental	income	in	BTC,	ETH,	or	LTC	
(rental	income	is	calculated	based	on	the	current	exchange	rate	of	BTC,	ETH,	or	LTC	to	USD).	
Funds	can	be	moved	from	the	token	holder’s	account	to	any	third	party	BTC/ETH/LTC	wallet	
at	any	time.		

17

	 Cryptonomos	 does	 not	 charge	 any	 processing	 fees.	 Processing	 time	 and	 fees	 are	 determined	 by	 the	
payment	 processor.	 Token	 holders	 are	 responsible	 for	 paying	 all	 processing	 fees	 and	 financial	 charges	
imposed	by	the	payment	processor	in	connection	with	the	payment.	
18
	Please	contact	the	support	team	for	wire	transfer	instructions.	
19
	See	Section	"Token	Launch	Platform"	for	details.	
20
	Please	see	the	Projected	Timeline	section	for	details	of	the	token	issue	batches.	

18
134834324.1

Distribution	and	Rates
The	Giga	Watt	facility	layout	is	extremely	flexible,	which	allows	us	to	be	flexible	with	the	token	
sales.	
There	is	no	minimum	amount:	the	first	facilities	have	already	been	completed	and	the	new	
units	are	currently	being	built.	Consequently,	the	tokens	can	be	issued	for	as	low	capacity	as	
required.	 However,	 the	 total	 number	 of	 tokens	 available	 for	 sale	 as	 Giga	 Watt	 builds	 out	
additional	capacities	is	capped	at	30	million.	
Each	 token	 represents	 1	 Watt's	 worth	 of	 the	 processing	 center’s	 capacity.	 For	 every	 100	
tokens	 sold,	 15	 additional	 tokens	 will	 be	 issued	 and	 retained	 for	 the	 team,	 partners	 and	
advisors:	10	tokens	to	be	distributed	to	team	members,	and	5	to	be	retained	for	distribution	
to	partners	and	advisors	at	issuer’s	discretion.	Consequently,	for	every	100	tokens	sold,	115	
Watts	of	processing	center	capacity	is	put	into	operation.	
If	the	token	sale	is	over-subscribed,	meaning	that	there	is	more	demand	for	WTT	tokens	than	
there	is	existing	facility	capacity,	the	capacity	will	be	allocated	to	the	WTT	tokens	in	the	order	
in	which	the	WTT	tokens	were	purchased.	The	over-subscribed	proceeds	will	be	placed	into	
escrow	until	the	requisite	processing	center	capacity	has	been	built	out.21	
WTT	tokens	retained	for	distribution	to	the	team	will	be	distributed	only	when	no	proceeds	
from	 over-subscribed	 tokens	 remain	 in	 escrow	 awaiting	 the	 completion	 of	 additional	
processing	center	capacity	construction.	WTT	tokens	retained	for	distribution	to	partners	and	
advisors	will	be	distributed	on	a	case	by	case	basis.	
WTT	initial	rate	depends	on	the	day	of	acquisition:	

21

	If	the	construction	of	the	processing	center	capacity	designed	to	accommodate	additional	WTT	tokens	is	not	
completed	in	a	reasonable	amount	of	time,	the	relevant	portion	of	these	proceeds	will	be	refunded	to	the	WTT	
token	purchasers.	However,	if	Giga	Watt	discharged	all	its	obligations	in	full,	no	refunds	will	be	due	to	the	WTT	
token	purchasers.	

19
134834324.1

Projected	Timeline	
The	size	of	the	Giga	Watt	facility	depends	on	the	amount	of	available	funds.	The	Giga	Watt	
project	has	sufficient	commitments	for	land	and	electricity	to	build	additional	capacities	to	
fulfil	its	obligations	under	this	Token	Launch.	
	
Projected	Token	Launch	Timeline	
-	May	19	–	June	2,	2017:	pre-sale		
-	June	2	–	July	31,	2017:	Token	Launch	book	building	
-	August	7,	2017:	First	batch	of	tokens	(5,400,000	WTT)	issued	to	participants;	if	the	cap	is	
reached	earlier,	the	first	batch	of	WTT	tokens	may	be	issued	ahead	of	the		schedule	to	provide	
access	to	the	facilities	built	by	the	time	of	the	issue	(at	Cryptonomos'	discretion).		
New	batches	of	tokens	will	be	issued	in	step	with	the	construction	of	new	facilities.22		To	ensure	
the	 advantage	 for	 the	 Token	 Launch	 participants,	 no	 listing	 will	 be	 placed	 on	 third	 party	
exchanges	until	all	WTT	tokens	sold	through	the	Token	Launch	are	distributed.	

Projected	Construction	Timeline	
3	units,	2.25	MW	are	available	right	now	
-	July	15,	2017:	1	Giga	Pod	completed,	0.75	MW	
-	August	1,	2017:		2	Giga	Pods	completed,	2.4MW		
-	August	15,	2017:	Expansion	of	the	unit,	0.9	MW	
-	September	1,	2017:	3	Giga	Pods	completed,	4.5	MW	
-	September	15,	2017:	9	Giga	Pods	completed,	15	MW	

22

	Additional		WTT	tokens	may	be	sold	to	the	public	in	the	future	as	the	facility	capacity	is	increased	through	
build	outs.	

20
134834324.1

-	October	1,	2017:	3	Giga	Pods	completed,	4.5	MW	
-	November	15,	2017:	3	Giga	Pods	completed,	4.2	MW	

	

	

21
134834324.1

Team
Giga	Watt	Project	Team
●		

Dave	Carlson	
CEO,	Giga	Watt,	Inc.	

Software	engineer	and	entrepreneur.	4	years	as	a	CEO	and	founder	of	MegaBigPower,	one	of	
the	largest	single-operator	mining	facilities	in	the	world.
●		

Adam	West	
VP	Business	Development,	Director,	Operator-Partner	Program,	Giga	Watt,	Inc.	

10	years'	experience	in	business	development,	management	and	marketing.	Over	the	past	
year	focused	on	Blockchain	technologies,	with	the	emphasis	on	industrial	mining	projects.
●		 Kyle	Sidles	
CTO,	Giga	Watt,	Inc.	
Database	 design,	 programming,	 network	 infrastructure	 and	 application	 deployment.	
Successfully	built	and	launched	over	200	diverse	software	projects	in	USA,	India,	and	China.	
Builds	and	runs	large-scale	Blockchain	data	centers	since	2013.
●		 Jeffrey	Field	
Lead	Engineer,	Giga	Watt,	Inc.	
4	years'	experience	designing	the	physical	infrastructure	for	mining	facilities,	network	layouts,	
and	 cooling	 plans	 while	 managing	 technical	 crews	 for	 all	 aspects	 of	 installation	 and	
maintenance	at	the	MegaBigPower	facilities.
●		 Brian	Armstrong	
Operations	Supervisor,	Giga	Watt,	Inc.	
Service	and	maintenance	of	mining	equipment,	training	new	personnel,	team	supervision	on	
assigned	 operational	 tasks,	 troubleshooting	 and	 repair	 of	 network	 systems.	 8	 years’	
experience	in	the	U.	S.	Air	Force	as	a	security	expert.
22
134834324.1

●		 Sinden	Harum	
Executive	Manager,	Giga	Watt,	Inc.	
Day	 to	 day	 operational	 responsibility	 for	 staff,	 office	 administration,	 payroll,	 human	
resources,	bookkeeping,	accounting,	core	programs,	special	programs.	
●		 Michael	Savuskan	
CЕO,	GigaWatt	Pte.	Ltd.	
24	years'	experience	in	product,	technology,	and	business	development,	marketing,	planning,	
and	sales	management.	Sales	and	profit	growth,	new	business	launches,	and	domestic	and	
international	marketplace	assessments.	
●		 Hayden	Gill	
VP	of	Sales,	GigaWatt	Pte.	Ltd.	
13	years'	experience	in	investment,	marketing,	and	alternative	currencies.	From	2010	focuses	
on	 bitcoin	 and	 blockchain	 technologies.	 Founder	 of	 successful	 projects	 in	 peer-to-peer	
payment	services	and	alternative	currencies.	

	
Cryptonomos	Token	Launch	Team
●		 Nick	Evdokimov,	CEO
14	years'	experience	in	developing	high	load	online	services.	Founder	of	numerous	Internet	
enterprises.	2	years	in	Blockchain	development.
					●		 Dmitry	Khovratovich,	Smart	Contract	Development	
12	 years’	 experience,	 with	 a	 focus	 on	 privacy	 and	 security	 of	 blockchain	 projects	 (Bitcoin,	
Ethereum),	design	and	analysis	of	cryptographic	schemes,	and	security	software	engineering.	
Security	Researcher	at	the	University	of	Luxembourg.
●		 Andrew	Kuzenny,	Head	of	IR

23
134834324.1

18	years'	experience	in	investor	relations,	seeking	and	engaging	partners,	asset	management.	
A	recent	Blockchain	technologies	enthusiast.
●		 Edward	Khaptakhaev,	Legal	Counsel
12	 years'	 experience	 in	 legal	 support	 of	 international	 and	 domestic	 companies	 engaged	 in	
energy	generation,	banking	and	IT/IP.
●		 Leonid	Markin,	Financial	management
12	years’	experience	in	finances	and	asset	management.	5	years	in	finances	in	the	high-tech	
engineering	segment	of	the	energy	field.	Fintech	entrepreneur.
● Daria	Generalova,	Communications	and	PR
10	years	in	public	communications.	Diverse	experience	in	marketing,	from	event	management	
to	 marketing	 strategy	 development,	 with	 a	 focus	 on	 infrastructure	 companies.	 Joined	
blockchain	industry	last	year.
● Anar	Babaev,	Digital	Marketing
14	 years	 in	 digital	 marketing.	 Internet	 entrepreneur	 focused	 on	 mastering	 and	
implementation	of	new	technologies.	Co-author	of	several	books	on	digital	advertising.

	

	

24
134834324.1

Risk	Factors
The	acquisition	of	Tokens	involves	a	high	degree	of	risk,	including	but	not	limited	to	the	risks	
described	below.	Before	acquiring	tokens,	it	is	recommended	that	each	participant	carefully	
weighs	 all	 the	 information	 and	 risks	 detailed	 in	 this	 White	 Paper,	 and,	 specifically,	 the	
following	risk	factors.	
A.	Dependence	on	computer	infrastructure	
Giga	Watt's	dependence	on	functioning	software	applications,	computer	hardware	and	the	
Internet	 implies	 that	 Giga	 Watt	 can	 offer	 no	 assurances	 that	 a	 system	 failure	 would	 not	
adversely	 affect	 the	 performance	 of	 your	 mining	 operations.	 Despite	 Giga	 Watt's	
implementation	of	all	reasonable	network	security	measures,	its	processing	center	servers	
are	vulnerable	to	computer	viruses,	physical	or	electronic	break-ins	or	other	disruptions	of	a	
similar	nature.	Computer	viruses,	break-ins	or	other	disruptions	caused	by	third	parties	may	
result	in	interruption,	delay	or	suspension	of	services.	
B.	Smart	contract	limitations	
Smart	contract	technology	is	still	in	its	early	stages	of	development,	and	its	application	is	of	
experimental	 nature.	 This	 may	 carry	 significant	 operational,	 technological,	 regulatory,	
reputational	and	financial	risks.	Consequently,	although	the	audit	conducted	by	independent	
third	party	increases	the	level	of	security,	reliability,	and	accuracy,	this	audit	cannot	serve	as	
any	 form	 of	 warranty,	 including	 any	 expressed	 or	 implied	 warranty	 that	 the	 WTT	 Smart	
Contract	is	fit	for	purpose	or	that	it	contains	no	flaws,	vulnerabilities	or	issues	which	could	
cause	technical	problems	or	the	complete	loss	of	WTT	tokens.	
C.	Regulatory	risks	
The	Blockchain	technology,	including	but	not	limited	to	the	issue	of	tokens,	may	be	a	new	
concept	in	some	jurisdictions,	which	may	then	apply	existing	regulations	or	introduce	new	
regulations	 regarding	 Blockchain	 technology-based	 applications,	 and	 such	 regulations	 may	
conflict	 with	 the	 current	 WTT	 Smart	 Contract	 setup.	 This	 may	 result	 in	 substantial	
modifications	of	the	WTT	Smart	Contract,	including	but	not	limited	to	its	termination	and	the	
loss	of	WTT	tokens.	
D.	Price	of	Bitcoin	
25
134834324.1

Giga	Watt	offers	services	to	companies	and	individuals	engaged	in	mining	cryptocurrencies,	
primarily	Bitcoin.	Such	operations	are	highly	dependent	on	Bitcoin	prices	at	local	exchanges.	
Sharp	and	protracted	decline	in	Bitcoin	prices	can	affect	the	ability	of	Giga	Watt’s	customers	
to	fulfill	their	contractual	obligations	to	pay	rental	fees	to	token	holders	whose	tokens	they	
rent.	
E.	Rapid	changes	in	technology	may	adversely	affect	mining	business	
Cryptocurrency	 mining	 is	 a	 very	 dynamic	 and	 fast-paced	 business.	 To	 remain	 competitive,	
Giga	Watt	will	use	its	best	efforts	to	follow	and	promptly	introduce	the	latest	technologies	at	
its	facility.	However,	Giga	Watt's	failure	to	remain	competitive	despite	its	endeavors	may	pose	
the	risk	of	declining	benefits	for	the	WTT	token	holders.	Likewise,	token	holders	are	advised	
to	monitor	their	own	mining	equipment	performance	and	update	it	as	needed.	Alternatively,	
as	 their	 equipment	 performance	 weakens	 over	 time,	 they	 should	 consider	 renting	 their	
tokens	out	to	other	miners	to	avoid	the	decline	in	the	mining	rewards.	
F.	Fluctuation	in	mining	rewards.		
Mining	cryptocurrencies	is	a	risky	business	and	many	factors	must	be	carefully	considered	
prior	to	its	commencement.	Fluctuations	of	the	BTC	price,	increase	of	the	prices	for	mining	
equipment	and	electricity,	growth	of	the	mining	difficulty	rate,	decrease	in	the	block	reward,	
and	many	other	factors	may	affect	mining	rewards	and	result	in	losses.		
G.	Fluctuation	in	token	benefits	and	rental	income.		
The	 WTT	 token	 is	 intended	 to	 provide	 a	 valuable	 benefit	 of	 access	 to	 a	 low-cost	 hosting	
solution	 for	 cryptocurrency	 miners	 by	 giving	 them	 the	 ability	 to	 use	 Giga	 Watt’s	 facilities.	
Although	token	holders	can	rent	their	tokens	to	other	people	through	the	internal	Giga	Watt	
platform	and	receive	income	from	rent,	the	primary	purpose	of	the	token	is	to	allow	token	
holders	to	achieve	savings	by	cutting	costs	of	their	mining	operations.	Market	changes,	a	drop	
in	hosting	prices,	changes	in	the	local	cost	of	electricity	at	WTT’s	facility	and	other	factors	may	
reduce	the	value	of	the	WTT	tokens	and	drive	down	the	rental	prices	of	tokens.	
H.	Construction	delay.		
Construction	timeline	specified	in	this	White	Paper	is	based	on	the	reasonable	estimates	but	
is	not	guaranteed.	This	timeline	may	change,	and	the	construction	may	be	delayed	because	
26
134834324.1

of	 many	 factors,	 including	 those	 beyond	 Giga	 Watt’s	 control,	 such	 as	 the	 actions	 of	 third	
parties	(contractors,	suppliers,	etc.).	If	the	completion	of	the	capacities	is	delayed	by	more	
than	3	months	from	the	projected	date,	and,	consequently,	the	relevant	WTT	tokens	are	not	
issued,	the	escrow	agent	may	issue	a	refund	at	the	request	of	the	WTT	token	purchasers.		The	
refund	will	be	issued	in	the	original	form	of	payment	at	the	exchange	rate	on	the	date	of	the	
refund.		
I.	Change	in	electricity	rate.		
The	effective	electricity	rate	provided	in	this	document	is	based	on	a	current	cost	of	electricity	
available	under	the	existing	contracts	with	the	Public	Utility	District	of	Washington	State.	The	
electricity	rate	is	not	guaranteed	and	may	change	from	time	to	time.	Any	change	in	electricity	
rates	will	cause	a	direct	change	in	the	value	of	the	WTT	tokens	and	the	ongoing	cost	of	hosting	
your	mining	equipment.	
J.	Irregular	electricity	consumption.	
If	 during	 the	 testing	 of	 the	 equipment	 sent	 to	 Giga	 Watt	 for	 hosting	 such	 equipment	
demonstrates	a	greater	use	of	electric	power	than	the	number	of	WTT	tokens	purchased	or	
rented	to	accommodate	it,	the	equipment	owner	will	be	charged	a	regular	Giga	Watt's	hosting	
rate	(7.5-9.75	cents	per	kWh,	depending	on	the	number	of	hosted	miners)	for	any	amount	of	
power	consumed	by	the	equipment	in	excess	of	the	number	of	tokens	available	to	host	it.		
K.	Change	of	electricity	consumption.	
From	time	to	time,	the	equipment's	power	consumption	may	fluctuate	for	various	reasons	
including	 but	 not	 limited	 to	 seasonal	 temperature	 changes.	 If	 and	 when	 the	 equipment's	
power	consumption	exceeds	the	number	of	WTT	tokens	purchased	or	rented	by	its	owner	for	
its	hosting,	the	owner	will	be	charged	a	regular	Giga	Watt's	hosting	rate	(7.5-9.75	cents	per	
kWh,	depending	on	the	number	of	the	hosted	miners)	for	any	amount	of	power	consumed	by	
the	equipment	in	excess	of	the	number	of	tokens	available	to	host	it.	
L.	Change	in	maintenance	cost.	
The	maintenance	cost	specified	in	this	document	is	based	on	the	current	labor	costs	and	the	
hours	 required	 to	 run	 the	 company’s	 operations	 and	 maintain	 the	 projected	 number	 of	
facilities	 and	 the	 clients'	 equipment.	 Over	 time,	 the	 cost	 of	 maintenance	 may	 change	 for	
27
134834324.1

various	 reasons,	 including	 but	 not	 limited	 to	 the	 eventual	 minimum	 wage	 increase	 by	 the	
Washington	State	or	Federal	government.	Any	change	in	maintenance	cost	will	cause	a	direct	
change	 in	 the	 value	 of	 the	 WTT	 tokens	 and	 the	 ongoing	 cost	 of	 hosting	 your	 mining	
equipment.		
M.	Sales	and	other	taxes.		
Token	 holders	 and	 purchasers	 of	 mining	 equipment	 may	 be	 required	 to	 pay	 sales	 tax	
(collected	 at	 sale)	 and	 other	 taxes	 associated	 with	 the	 transactions	 contemplated	 herein,	
whether	in	the	United	States	or	in	their	home	countries.	It	will	be	a	sole	responsibility	of	the	
token	holders	and	purchasers	of	the	mining	equipment	to	comply	with	the	tax	laws	of	the	
United	States	and	other	jurisdictions	and	pay	all	relevant	taxes.	
N.	Force	Majeure.		
Giga	Watt’s	performance	may	be	interrupted,	suspended	or	delayed	due	to	force	majeure	
circumstances.	For	the	purposes	of	this	White	Paper,	force	majeure	shall	mean	extraordinary	
events	and	circumstances	which	could	not	be	prevented	by	Giga	Watt	and	shall	include:	acts	
of	nature,	wars,	armed	conflicts,	mass	civil	disorders,	industrial	actions,	epidemics,	lockouts,	
slowdowns,	 prolonged	 shortage	 or	 other	 failures	 of	 energy	 supplies	 or	 communication	
service,	 acts	 of	 municipal,	 state	 or	 federal	 governmental	 agencies,	 other	 circumstances	
beyond	Giga	Watt's	control,	which	were	not	in	existence	at	the	time	of	Token	Launch.	If	such	
circumstances	occur	prior	to	issuance	of	WTT	tokens	and	Giga	Watt	is	unable	to	issue	WTT	
tokens	within	6	months	from	the	projected	date,	the	escrow	agent	may	issue	a	refund	at	the	
request	 of	 the	 WTT	 token	 purchasers.	 The	 refund	 will	 be	 issued	 in	 the	 original	 form	 of	
payment	at	the	exchange	rate	on	the	date	of	the	refund.		
O.	Compliance	with	U.S.	laws	and	regulations.	
Because	the	hosting	facilities	are	located	in	the	United	States,	WTT	token	holders	who	wish	
to	use	their	tokens	to	host	their	equipment	at	the	facilities	would	be	required	to	comply	with	
the	U.S.	laws	and	regulations	and	may	need	to	verify	their	identities	and	provide	proof	of	
address	(for	individuals),	or	verify	their	registration,	good	standing,	list	of	ultimate	beneficial	
owners,	and	address	(for	legal	entities)	prior	to	using	their	WTT	tokens	and	setting	up	their	
equipment	at	Giga	Watt's	facilities,	or	at	any	time	thereafter	upon	Giga	Watt's	request.	Token	
holders	 who	 fail	 to	 comply	 with	 such	 verification	 request,	 or	 who	 are	 determined	 to	 be	
28
134834324.1

restricted	from	dealing	with	the	U.S.	entities	or	operating	in	the	U.S.,	or	who	are	otherwise	
ineligible	under	the	US	law	to	host	their	equipment	with	Giga	Watt	would	be	refused	hosting	
or	WTT	token	rental	services,	with	no	refund	issued	by	Giga	Watt	for	the	purchased	tokens.	
Such	token	holders	may	retain	their	tokens	or	may,	at	their	discretion,	choose	to	sell	them	to	
eligible	customers.	Token	purchasers	are	solely	responsible	for	learning	about	the	US	laws	
and	legal	restrictions	applicable	to	residents	of	certain	countries	and	individuals	involved	in	
certain	activities.	
P.	Disclosure	of	information.	
Personal	information	received	from	WTT	token	holders,	WTT	token	renters,	and	owners	of	
the	equipment	submitted	for	hosting,	the	information	about	the	number	of	tokens	or	miners	
serviced	by	Giga	Watt,	rewards	earned	on	the	pool,	the	wallet	addresses	used,	and	any	other	
relevant	information	may	be	disclosed	to	law	enforcement,	government	officials,	and	other	
third	parties	when	Giga	Watt	is	required	to	disclose	such	information	by	law,	subpoena,	or	
court	order.	Giga	Watt	shall	at	no	time	be	held	responsible	for	such	information	disclosure.	
Q.	Value	of	WTT	Token.	
Once	purchased,	the	value	of	WTT	Token	may	significantly	fluctuate	due	to	various	reasons.	
Giga	Watt	does	not	guarantee	any	specific	value	of	the	WTT	Token	over	any	specific	period	of	
time.	Giga	Watt	shall	not	be	held	responsible	for	any	change	in	the	value	of	WTT	Token.	
Assumptions	with	respect	to	the	foregoing	involve,	among	other	things,	judgments	about	the	
future	economic,	competitive	and	market	conditions	and	business	decisions,	most	of	which	
are	beyond	the	control	of	the	Giga	Watt	project	team	and	therefore	difficult	or	impossible	to	
accurately	predict.	Although	the	Giga	Watt	team	believes	that	its	assumptions	underlying	its	
forward-looking	statements	are	reasonable,	any	of	these	may	prove	to	be	inaccurate.	As	a	
result,	 the	 Giga	 Watt	 team	 can	 offer	 no	 assurances	 that	 the	 forward-looking	 statements	
contained	in	this	White	Paper	will	prove	to	be	accurate.	In	light	of	the	significant	uncertainties	
inherent	 in	 the	 forward-looking	 statements	 contained	 herein,	 the	 inclusion	 of	 such	
information	may	not	be	interpreted	as	a	warranty	on	the	part	of	Giga	Watt	or	any	other	entity	
that	the	objectives	and	plans	of	the	Giga	Watt	project	will	be	successfully	achieved.	
Please	 note	 that	 the	 Giga	 Watt	 project	 may	 be	 subject	 to	 other	 risks	 not	 foreseen	 by	 its	
management	at	this	time.	
29
134834324.1

