v 1.10
October 25, 2017

Volodymyr Panchenko

Alexander «ZeroGravity»
Kokhanovskyy

Sergey Nemesh

1

Abstract
DMarket is a global marketplace solution that turns every virtual item into a real
commodity. This paper discusses how we combine blockchain technologies and
seven years of industry experience to open this multi-billion dollar market to
the existing world economy. All that time people spend playing games on their
mobile, PC, console or any other platform could finally be worth something.
Essentially, DMarket is a new ecosystem where gamers, developers, and
entrepreneurs can efficiently and securely evaluate and trade virtual items.
Thus, DMarket creates a new economy that joins with existing real-equity
markets.
Early-access to the present paper was given to a number of individuals from
the gaming industry and blockchain community. The authors deeply thank
and acknowledge the comments and criticisms that have made the design of
DMarket and this whitepaper as good as they are. Any faults that remain are,
of course, the authors’.

2

Table of contents
Introduction
Market & Industry	
Video Games & VR	
Digital e-Commerce & Gaming Market Analysis	
Cryptocurrency Market

	

Product Details	
Problem Definition
The Solution	
For Gamers	
Items Unique Signature & History	
Influence on Market Development	
For Developers and Publishers	
Increased Revenue
Bounty program for the game developers and publishers	
Use-case	
DMarket business opportunities
Modders, Designers & Contributors	

Technologies
The DMarket System
DMarket Coin
DMarket Token as in-game item
Product monetization & DMarket Coin economy

Summary
Product Roadmap	
Token Sale	
Token Sale Phase #1
Token Sale Phase #2	

Use of Funds
DMarket: Projections
Our Commitment After the Token Sale Phase #1
Our Team
Advisory Board
Sources

3

Introduction
In real life, whether you are a lawyer, a crypto trader, a game developer or a
miner, you spend time, experience, and even luck working to achieve something.
This always results in a new experience and/or real assets. And since it is yours,
you can sell, gift it or just throw any asset away.
Around 2.3 billion people play games on different platforms and devices,
creating a gaming industry that in 2016 reached $100 billion and continues to
boom. Only 4,000 pro gamers make a profit from the time and skill they spend
gaming, including the trading of in-game items they accumulate. Just a couple
of games accumulating only 6% of the global audience made a turnover of $4
billion of in-game items. The rest of gamers are out of the market.
The existing technologies cannot connect the many game universes and
platforms together. As a result, players are stuck with their useless items,
despite their time and effort. The growth of the gaming audience and the rise
of the VR and AR markets has compounded this situation.
Our team knows exactly what gamers want. Twelve months ago, we started
trading virtual items in just a couple of games, and since then we have traded
12 million virtual items. We know what the market needs and have already
developed a unique platform that enables us to satisfy that need.
We are now developing a marketplace based on blockchain and smart contracts
that enable the one-click sale, exchange or evaluation of every virtual item
between all games on any platform. The DMarket token will be the only currency
on the platform, providing different options that affect every trade, exchange,
fee and smart contract. By the end of this whitepaper, you will see how we
are building a new online economy with the DMarket token. 2.3 billion gamers
will finally be able to enter a global virtual item market. Using our API, every
game developer will easily connect their game to DMarket and gain from the
increased value, revenue and time spent in their games.

4

Market & Industry
Video Games & VR
There are approximately 2.3 billion gamers across the globe who are expected
to generate revenue of $109 billion in 20171. This shows a $7.8 billion (7.8%)
growth compared to 2016. Digital game revenue will account for about $95
billion (87%) of the global market.

Use

rs

The most profitable segment is mobile, showing $46.1 billion (19%) and claiming
42% of the market.
According to the VR/AR Report Q3 20172, provided by Digi-Capital, the virtual
reality and augmented reality (VR & AR) market is expected to reach up to $122
billion by 2021. Also, Digi-capital claims that the size of the gaming market is
going to reach $200 billion over the next five years. Many companies, such as
Microsoft Corp., Nintendo Co. Ltd, and Sony Corp., are launching their own VRcompatible console, and this competition accelerates the industry as a whole.
1	https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/the-global-games-market-will-reach-108-9-billion-in-2017withmobile-taking-42/ 	
2	
http://www.digi-capital.com/reports/#augmented-virtual-reality	

5

Digital e-Commerce & Gaming Market Analysis
In this section, we review the biggest players in the global in-game items
trading market.
The Steam platform was released on September 12, 2003. Over the past 4 years,
it has gained enormous popularity among the gaming community, reaching
$3.5 billion revenue in 20163. This platform was the first to allow trading of ingame items, but all the profit received from trading is held inside the platform,
without the possibility of cashing the money out. Moreover, the possibility to
trade in-game items is very limited and presented in just a few games (CS:GO,
DOTA2, TF2, PUBG, H1Z1).
Steam Pros:
• Steam has become the largest marketplace for video games and mods
commercialization; • It had $3.5 billion revenue in 2016. Steam’s rate of
acquisition and catalog offering have shown rapid growth. Up to this day,
almost 370 million paid games have been activated;
• Steam also offers many services for players, modders and game developers,
like object trading, beta/alpha release, game presale, objects listing, payment
processing and credit card verification.
Steam Cons:
• Steam technology and servers are centralized, and have complete control
over the availability of any single product or item in their catalog, which leads
to security (account) fraud;
• Most of the games on Steam don’t have any functionality for in-game item
trading. Only three games have a significant influence on overall turnover of
in-game items (CS:GO, Dota2, TF2);
• Steam users don’t have any real influence on platform development;
• Steam doesn’t allow users to cash out virtual platform currency;
• Steam has high fees for trading in-game items (up to 12%);
• Steam technology does not support multi-platform and multi-engine trading.

3	

https://www.statista.com/statistics/547025/steam-game-sales-revenue/	

6

Here are some figures that show average daily Steam user numbers and the
overall number of games connected to Steam:
• Number of daily active users4: 12 853 536 (as of 2017-07-15);
• Number of games5: +- 14 398 (as of 2017-07-15).
Opskins is an in-game items trading marketplace that was launched in
December 2014. The service implements the Steam API to enable the trading
of in-game items. Currently, Opskins is the biggest skins trading platform on
the planet with ten million unique users monthly.
Opskins pros:
• Q1-Q2 2017 turnover conducted around $250 million;
• One of the biggest communities for skins trading (over 10 million users
monthly6);
• Real money cashout.
Opskins cons:
• Doesn’t have official support from Steam (lots of account fraud);
• High fees for transaction and cashout (up to 10%);
• Supports only a few Steam games;
• Due to the use of the Steam API, is highly dependent on Steam.

Cryptocurrency Market
For the first time, cryptocurrencies hold a market cap larger than $100 billion7.
Bitcoin (BTC) owns the biggest share, with slightly over $46.6 billion (47.9% of
all cryptocurrencies8). But the recent wave of other coins, like Ethereum ether
(ETH), has helped bring the total cap over the top.

4	
5	

http://store.steampowered.com/stats/	
https://steamspy.com/year/	

6	
https://www.similarweb.com/website/opskins.com#overview	
7	
http://www.marketwatch.com/story/with-bitcoin-surge-cryptocurrencies-top-100-billion-in-	
	marketcapitalization-2017-06-06		
8	

	

https://howmuch.net/articles/worlds-money-in-perspective	

7

Bitcoin peaked to its all-time high (ATH) recently in both price and market cap.

8

Product details
Problem Definition
Every minute spent in-game leaves gamers with virtual goods. This could be
new armor, a fancy car or just a pile of crystals. Unfortunately, there is no easy
way (or no way at all) to trade these virtual assets among the billions of gamers
around the world.
Game universes are not connected to each other, which means there is no
safe and easy way to trade between them, and no reliable way to approve
these trades. It was not technologically possible to build a bridge between the
dozens of game engines, independent and global game developers, and the
mobile and console worlds.
More than 70% of the 15 million games we sold in the last 5 years is 2 or more
years old. There are currently thousands of games, where people can potentially
trade and exchange digital items. But this is impossible, due to the inability of
game developers to provide local trading markets for each game.
Billions of gamers possess rare items, fancy items, memorabilia items. All in
high demand, but technologically limited to trade.

The Solution
This market void and our many years of experience have inspired DMarket, the
first decentralized, global marketplace for trading any digital items. To fill in the
gap, we have to offer a scalable, cross-platform solution that enables gamers
to trade any virtual item from any game.
We are creating a new economic segment. Any kind of collaboration between
gamers and game developers on our platform will be regulated by market
demand. Therefore, gamers have their own interest in collecting rare items, and
game developers are interested in creating and maintaining unique, relevant
and tradable gaming content.

9

Users (players as well as developers) will be able to leverage their own
achievements and time spent, either for a better gaming experience or for
profit. DMarket will also be an easy place to start showing off to other players.
This adds a completely new dimension to game virtual assets: the notion of
virtual capital.

HOW DMARKET WORKS

For Gamers
We want to provide an opportunity for every gamer (DMarket user) in the world
to be able to evaluate their time, skills and luck. Gamers will be able to perform
easy, one-click buy/sell, exchange, and evaluation of every possible game
asset, item, skin, or another game object. To make this possible, each DMarket
user will be provided with an account on a full-time basis. The account will
preserve all data in our decentralized database and interact with users utilizing
smart contracts.

10

Value for gamers:
•	 in-game item trading and profit-making;
•	 opportunity to create in-game content and participate in its turnover on
DMarket;
•	 security accreditation for every transaction within DMarket;
•	 opportunity to get a unique collectible in-game item;
•	 opportunity to switch between games without losing gained arsenal of ingame items.

Items Unique Signature & History
Blockchain technology and unique identification turn every item on DMarket
into an exclusive product with its own history, providing each item with
additional and even collectible value. Thus, achievements of previous holders
could influence the price and value of an item over time.
Let’s imagine, for example, a collection of unique items used by cybersports
champions who took part in world tournaments in 2010-2017. Those items
couldn’t be bought from the game developer, but they could be bought from
DMarket members who had them. Thus, for one player, it could be important to
collect items from a tournament series, while for others it will be their exciting
mission to collect all kinds of armor used by their favorite Esports players.

Influence on Market Development
Buying power will provide users with a real impact on the development of
game assets, items, and mods. The cross-platform and cross-game items
exchange will open new opportunities to discover and play games while
levering each user’s virtual gaming capital.

For Developers and Publishers
Early access to the present paper was given to a number of developers from
the gaming industry. Most of them showed intense interest in integrating the
DMarket API into their games. Moreover, they have helped us compose case
11

studies and monetization methods for different platforms (PC, consoles, mobile,
VR-compatible platforms), and expand our knowledge of in-game economics.
We offer a unique solution for game developers. DMarket’s API is a ready-touse solution for giving value to any digital item—whether it is armor, sword,
gems, or other items—as well as item monetization. First, libraries will cover
the most popular engines, such as Unreal, Cry Engine, and Unity 3D. That will
open DMarket to integration with most games on the market. Then, we will add
custom engine support. Also, we are working on a mobile game solution for iOS
and Android.
We have a roadmap for games with different business models (pay-to-play,
free-to-play, and pay-to-win) with a different number of players (console single
and multiplayer games) for all types of platforms (PC, consoles, mobile games).
After studying all these monetization types, we have a win-win solution for
every market.

Value for game developers:
•	 marketing intensification and general audience increase. Up to 32% of
raised funds will be put into events, promos, and general advertising that
will expand the audience of games presented on DMarket;
•	 revenue increase. Publishers will receive most of the fees from every
exchange of their intellectual property: in-game items;
•	 LTV increase. Lifetime value will dramatically increase as gamers are
expected to spend in the game hunting for items. Gamers will be able not
only to have fun, but also to get additional revenue while playing;
•	

DMarket gives an opportunity to gamers and game fans to test themselves
as content developers and create unique in-game assets for any game stored
on DMarket. The best items, approved by publishers will be integrated into the
game. This will enrich the gaming world with new and unique in-game assets, as
well as bring additional revenue to both gamers and publishers. Smart contracts
and blockchain technology will guarantee the transparency of all transactions
and automatically distribute profits within agreed terms to all parties.

•	 Up to 18% of raised funds will be used for the development of costeffective business models for in-game item turnover. It will be applied to
the business models suggested by publishers and developers.

12

Increased Revenue
DMarket will provide developers and decision makers with a platform on which
games can leverage additional years of existence. Combined with a strong ingame economy system and interesting new features, even single games (not
part of a franchise and without multiplayer features) could expect to see a
constant income increase.
Developers of virtual items presented on DMarket will gain most of the fees
from every trade commission (up to 80% of every transaction on DMarket).
This solution aims to generate new ways of game monetization and increase
lifetime value.
The evolution of blockchain technology and smart contracts has enabled us to
exclude fraud to the maximum possible extent, whether it’s database hacking
or account hacking. It is the key criterion in our decision to create DMarket.
In addition, the expansion of the tradable market will connect an ever-increasing
number of potential customers and open a whole new world of marketing.

Bounty program for the game developers and publishers
We offer a special bounty program for developers and publishers. Up to 18%
of the DMarket funds attracted by two phases of token sales will be spent to
stimulate the developers and publishers to create cost-effective and attractive
business models for the turnover of the in-game items stored on DMarket’s
blockchain.

Use-case
Single player and multiplayer PC and console games could generate revenue for
developers from the trade of hard-to-get, rare, and collectible items. Skins for
in-game items could fulfill the human drive to be different and avoid changing
the balance of an existing game.
Mobile games with pay-to-win or pay-to-play models could benefit from skin
turnover. Developers will be provided with the option of adding durability to
13

every item officially sold in the game, as well as opening a trade market for used
items. That will increase the turnover of new virtual assets and add revenue
from every used item sale without cannibalizing main sales.
Additional sources of income are memorabilia items for winning championships,
collaboration with designers, or previously owned by game stats. Information
about each item’s owner and history will be secured on the blockchain. This
will create an additional demand for these items from rare asset collectors or
celebrity gamers.
We will provide detailed case studies for every platform, along with technical
data, in a standalone document.

DMarket business opportunities
The API developed by DMarket provides multiple opportunities for
entrepreneurs. In-game items could be integrated into popular online stores,
used as payments for goods and services.
Potentially DMarket will enable in-game items to become real assets. When
this happens, you might be able to insure your in-game assets or receive a loan
from the bank using your virtual assets as security. That’s what we strive for.

Modders, Designers & Contributors
The market for modders will open any game to developers, designers, modders,
and content creators. The well-balanced percentage and use of smart contracts
will provide the ecosystem with the opportunity to win presale and beta/alpha
production cycles, increasing the community while building a user base and
setting up an individual economic network.
The DMarket network will help gamers to estimate the value of their virtual
capital and help game developers to increase their revenues.

14

Technologies
We are developing DMarket as a very high-load system. The market potential
consists of billions of users, each of whom has thousands of digital items.
After passing the milestone of 10 million users, the second phase of product
development will focus on our own blockchain solution.
The current version of the DMarket network blockchain, implemented using
Rust and C ++, has the following characteristics:
•	 High-speed response. It can process up to 3,000 transactions per second,
which will enable the platform to ensure a proper transaction processing
speed.
•	 Elasticity. The developed blockchain ensures smooth operation (even if
up to one-third of the nodes in the blockchain network are disabled or
compromised).
•	 Improved security. Due to the fact that our system is written in Rust, a
systems programming language designed without segmentation faults
to guarantee thread safety, the blockchain ensures improved security of
all processes occurring on the platform.
Our development team uses Exonum blockchain framework. At this stage, this
framework is the optimal solution for unleashing DMarket`s potential, which
allows you to create an efficiently functioning blockchain product with all the
necessary characteristics listed above in a short period.

The DMarket System
The DMarket system is divided into two independent parts.
The first is a decentralized blockchain database - a completely independent
distributed information storage system for all transactions that take place in
the game and/or on the trading platforms.
DMarket`s blockchain uses smart contract technology, which will ensure
transparency and security of the transaction for all participants.
15

The capability of smart contracts involves the management of required
conditions, digital items, and internal cryptocurrency, acting as an independent
intermediary. The payment and transfer of digital items are processed through
a smart contract based on all of its terms.
Smart contracts provide a much higher level of security than ordinary
contractual right. In addition, the technology allows for reducing transaction
costs. DMarket implements the following functions through smart contracts:
•	 control of in-game items` presence (based on HASH) and their available
quantity;
•	 control of users` solvency to purchase a particular item;
•	 other parameters that will be preset by the user or system.
A smart contract is activated after a successful purchase function initiation and
is responsible for making mutual cost clearings. A smart contract verifies the
user’s solvency, as well as the right to own items and the size of the commission.
The second part of the DMarket system:
This is an independent trading platform that is capable of processing hundreds
of thousands of operations per second and interacting with blockchain. This
layer is developed using the GoLang, PostgreSQL. In order to deliver high
performance, DMarket developers have chosen a micro-service architecture
with the RestFull API. Clusters, built on Kubernetes, ensure the stable operation
of micro-services.
The DMarket system also uses an independent multimedia storage service.
This service interacts with both the blockchain and the trading platform,
functioning as a high-speed storage of media resources. Thanks to this service
architecture, even its complete disconnection will not affect data continuity
and safety.
Additional modules
The DMarket team is developing a huge number of additional modules that
will be implemented in the marketplace - in particular, the development of
statistics management modules using AI, which in turn will use BigData
analysis modules. This will provide an opportunity to monitor the dynamics
of growing amounts of data in the system, obtain detailed analytical data on
16

the transmission chains of virtual items, and monitor the demand for certain
virtual items on the network.
Architecturally, all modules are built independently of each other, which
increases the stability of the entire system. The crash of one module will not
cause the failure of the entire system.
All components of the platform interact with each other with the help of
RestFull API, specially designed to provide data exchange between the internal
and external modules of the system.
Integration of DMarket`s API
To manage in-game items, game developers will receive all the necessary tools
in the form of API documentation, DLL-libraries or ready-made solutions that
will be developed for popular game engines.
That greatly simplifies DMarket`s integration into games.
	
At the moment, we are already developing services that will help to make the
adaptation process of games written in Unity 3D, CryEngine or Unreal Engine
as quick and understandable as possible, and also allow you to design and
flexibly adjust the economy of in-game items.
Also, the DMarket API will provide a number of additional features. In-game
items can be integrated into popular online stores and used as payment for
goods or services.
How does the system work from the perspective of the end user?
Here is how the DMarket platform shall operate upon its complete launch. The
user needs to create an account on DMarket. Automatically, the system creates
a wallet on the basis of the already existing cryptocurrency: DMarket Tokens.
Once the user has access to his account, he can immediately start working with
the wallet, adding the needed amount of DMarket Tokens or in-game items
presented on the marketplace.
To conduct trading operations, the system automatically synchronizes the
17

in-game items of the user with his personal account on the blockchain and
marketplace. Synchronization is carried out with the help of an API using the
user`s credentials for authorization.
				
To implement this synchronization and the overall interaction of the game with
the trading platform, game developers will be provided with an API that will
contain the following basic groups of methods:
• Methods for registering a developer in the system, while the system registers
a new balance account for the developer;
• Methods for generating HASH values for each game item (HASH will be used
as a unique value, to account for virtual items.);
• Methods for transferring HASH values within the network between players
and sellers;
• Methods allowing the identification of the state of each game item;
• Methods that track certain parameters of certain virtual objects.
					
Since smart contracts allow you to implement complex chains of interaction
between all market users, you need a tool that simplifies the usage of a smart
contract by end users. For this, we intend to create a special design with a userfriendly interface that will allow you to easily set basic parameters for contract
implementation.

DMarket Coin
DMarket Coin – is the only virtual currency that operates on DMarket. All
transactions with digital goods (including fees) are made in DMarket Coin only.
After the Token Sale Phase #2, all contributors will receive an ERC-20
exchangeable DMarket Token on the Ethereum network. After the launch of
the main DMarket network, this will be exchanged 1-to-1 with a native DMarket
Coin.
The issue of DMarket Tokens will be held once only. The number of tokens
produced will correspond to the number of tokens sold at the crowdsale, but
no more than the declared Hard Cap.

18

DMarket Coin functionality within the platform:
•	 As a virtual currency for buying or selling in-game items;
•	 Delivering sales commission to the owners of the rights on digital property;
•	 Buying premium accounts for wholesale and individual sellers;
•	 Purchasing BigData analytics.
DMarket Coin will be used on the DMarket and will not be limited to the
platform; in the future it will become a fully-fledged virtual currency item. You
can buy DMarket Tokens during two sale phases. The first sale phase was held
on 17–21 August 2017. During this period, users were able to buy tokens with
more favorable purchase terms. The second sale phase will start on November
14, 2017 and will continue through November 28, 2017.

DMarket Token as in-game item
PLEASE NOTE: CRYPTOGRAPHIC TOKENS REFERRED TO IN THIS SECTION
OF WHITE PAPER ARE CRYPTOGRAPHIC TOKENS ON A LAUNCHED
BLOCKCHAIN THAT ADOPTS DMarket.IO SOFTWARE. THEY ARE NOT THE
ERC-20-COMPATIBLE TOKENS BEING DISTRIBUTED ON THE ETHEREUM
BLOCKCHAIN IN CONNECTION WITH THE DMarket TOKEN DISTRIBUTION.
A blockchain connection will be established between each DMarket Token (ingame item) and a DMarket Coin. Each game element will be represented in the
wallet in the form of a DMarket Token.
Each item will be marked as the property of the company or the person who
created it, identified in the DMarket blockchain by its own unique ID. This will
make it possible to track the item within the system with specific features or
any other additional properties, which are defined in a smart contract. Virtual
items (DMarket Tokens) will only be released by their developers and copyright
holders.

Types of digital goods:
•	 Game virtual currency;
•	 Games/goods/services;
19

•	 Game items and consumables;
•	 Skins and designs;
•	 Mods, cards, and additions;
•	 Music and SFX.
DMarket Tokens (in-game items) are created through the use of the API’s
endpoint and a token factory. The API itself can be imported into the libraries
of the most popular engines; this simplifies the connection of the asset creators
(developers and publishers) with DMarket.

The creators of virtual items will be able to:
•	 Add and delete virtual goods;
•	 Set the basic prices for goods;
•	 Add different features to their goods (e.g. a virtual item can be labeled as
premium, common or used);
•	 Allow collective creation of goods;
•	 Ban certain users from conducting transactions with the goods.
A Token is a unique property of the digital goods of a particular user, which is
stored on the blockchain. The ownership of goods and property will be secured
by the system on the marketplace outside of the game world.
A Token (virtual good) is subject to alienation, meaning that it can be bought
or sold or given from one owner to another. The system will also have its own
evaluation methods that can be requested in one click (or API request) with
minimal fees.
Each transaction held in the DMarket has the main fee of 5% of the total
amount of the transaction. Most of the fee will be sent to the developers and
copyright holders whose items are involved in the transaction (publishers and
developers). The remaining element of the fee will be due to the DMarket.

Product monetization & DMarket Coin economy
One of the key priorities is DMarket monetization, which is beneficial for all
participants.
20

Monetization is achieved via a transaction fee on each change of item ownership
on the DMarket. It will not be more than 5%, and the rightsholder of in-game
assets will receive most of this commission.
Both transactions and commission charging are carried out in DMarket Coin
using smart contract technology.
DMarket offers a number of additional features. The game assets represented
on DMarket can be integrated into popular online stores and used as payment
for goods or services.
Up to 18% of raised funds will be spent to stimulate the developers and
publishers to create and develop cost-effective business models for in-game
item turnover.

21

Summary
2.3 billion gamers are currently facing technology limitations to their right to
trade in-game items. With time and effort, they earn virtual assets that are rare,
fancy, and sometimes simply wanted by other players. By creating DMarket,
a blockchain-based marketplace, we can connect all games and platforms
together. With the built-in token and smart contracts technologies, DMarket
will enable users to make a one-click sale, exchange every virtual item among
all games on any platform, as well as evaluate their assets. DMarket makes
virtual items real.
By offering gamers an opportunity to buy and sell in-game assets to all gamers
globally, DMarket creates a new in-game item economy worth more than $450
billion and turns virtual items into real assets with the help of blockchain
technology.	
Using our API, every game developer will easily connect its game to DMarket.
That will increase lifetime value, revenue, and time spent in the games. Users
will enter the global economy with virtual items.
Furthermore, DMarket’s API provides a number of business opportunities for
other entrepreneurs. Items stored on DMarket blockchain can be integrated
into popular online shops, and then used as a payment method.
	
Game developers are very welcome to discuss API implementation and DMarket
economics in their current and future projects. We invite every qualified and
interested blockchain and crypto developer to open discussion about network
creation. Crypto investors are invited to participate in the Main token sale
starting on November 14, 2017.
	
Be a part of the new world economy worth more than $450 billion.
Join DMarket today!

22

Product Roadmap
Q1 2017

The DMarket
idea birth

Q2 2017

Market research and
integration meetings with
game developers

Q3 2017

Brand awareness and

Q4 2017

DMarket Alpha (testnet), Token

Token Sale Phase #1

Sale Phase #2, Token emission,
DMarket Token listing

Q1 2018

DMarket security audit

Q2 2018

API integration in 10 games with

and product launch

1M users, in-game items value
exceeding $200M

Q2 2019

API integration in 100 games with
10M users, in-game items value
exceeding $2B

Q2 2020

API integration in 2000 games
with 100M users, in-game
items value exceeding $40B

23

Token Sale
Token Sale Phase #1
36,037,245 DMarket tokens were sold
	
Start date: August 17, 2017 (12:00 PM NYC Time, UTC-4)
End date: August 21, 2017 (12:00 PM NYC Time, UTC-4)
	
DMarket token sale cap (Phase #1): 50,000,000 DMarket tokens
Minimal goal to start: 5,000,000 DMarket tokens
Currency accepted: ETH, BTC
Token exchange rate: 1 ETH = 1,000 DMarket tokens
Amount of tokens per one person: unlimited
Minimum transaction amount in Ethereum: 0.1 ETH
Minimum transaction amount in Bitcoin: 100 DMarket tokens
Maximum transaction amount: unlimited
Bonuses:
Day 1: +10% bonus
Day 2: +5% bonus
Day 3: +3% bonus
Day 4: no bonuses

	

Token Sale Phase #2
Start date: November 14, 2017, at 12:00 PM New York / 16:00 UTC / 17:00 London
/ 17:00 CET / 19:00 Moscow / 21:30 Mumbai / 00:00 Shanghai, UTC +8 / 01:00
Tokyo, UTC +9
End date: 28th of November 2017 at 12:00 PM New York / 16:00 UTC / 17:00
London /17:00 CET / 19:00 Moscow / 21:30 Mumbai / 00:00 Shanghai, UTC +8
/ 01:00 Tokyo, UTC +9
	
	
DMarket token sale cap (Phase #2): 100,000,000 DMarket tokens
Currency accepted: ETH, BTC, LTC
The exchange rate is 1 ETH = 750 tokens
The minimum transaction: 75 DMarket tokens (0.1 ETH)
The maximum transaction: 25,000 DMarket tokens (33.33 ETH)
Amount of tokens per one person: 25K DMarket tokens (33,333 ETH)
After the token sale is closed, 10% of the total token amount sold is issued and
reserved for DMarket’s core activities, and 5% is reserved for DMarket advisory
board and partners. The DMarket tokens will be sent to the User’s personal
respective cryptocurrency wallet after of DMarket Token Sale Phase #2.
24

+5%

Advisory board & Partners

+10%

Core activities reserve

Token Sale

USE OF FUNDS
2017

2018

2019

2020

Total

%

Financial analytics

240K

455K

502K

500K

1 697K

2,67%

Sales and business analytics
department

369K

1 300K

1 662K

1 665K

4 996K

7.87%

Administrative and General
business expenses

361K

457K

550K

550K

1 918K

3.02%

External and internal legal
support

485K

218K

200K

200K

1 103K

1.74%

45K

70K

86K

85K

286K

0.45%

2 300K

5 870K

6 200K

7 600K

21 970K

34.59%

Marketing and advertising

520K

3 260K

4 350K

5 300K

13 430K

21.14%

Conferences, business trips

980K

1 240K

2 250K

2 100K

6 570K

10.34%

0

3 550K

4 200K

3 800K

11 550K

18.18%

5 300K

16 420K

20 000K

21 800K

63 520K

100.00%

Accounting and audit

IT development and product
development

Game developer bonuses

Total

25

DMarket: Projections
In 2016, the gaming industry’s revenue reached $100 billion and is still booming.
It is expected that by 2020 this figure will reach 128 billion dollars. The estimated
in-game trading turnover is $4 billion. And this volume is generated only by 150
million people. DMarket unlocks in-game item trading for more than 2.3 billion
people – that’s the number of people who play games every day on different
platforms and devices. The market will exceed $450 billion.
Considering the growth of the gaming industry and the opportunities that
DMarket opens, we believe that by 2020 the market for game content will
reach such a level that virtual items will be sold on a par with real goods on
top-of-the-line online platforms. Аnd well-known designers will cooperate not
only with sports or car brands, but they will start to create capsule collections
for GTA or World of Warcraft.
We believe that virtual items will extend beyond the game worlds and become
an integral part of real life. It is expected, banks will accept in-game content
as collateral, or issue loans for the purchase of a rare or collectible virtual item.
Insurance companies will easily insure a unique virtual sniper rifle that helped
to win the world championship. Jurists and lawyers will advocate and litigate
the owners’ rights to virtual items just as any other property – a car or a house.
.

KEY METRICS
Games

Users (mln)

In-game asset
value (USD, mln)

DMarket annual
trades turnover (USD, mln)

Target Volume

2018

10

1

900

108

180.00%

2019

100

10

9000

1080

1800.00%

2020

2000

200

180000

21600

36000.00%

2021

3500

350

315000

37800

63000.00%

2022

5000

500

450000

54000

90000.00%

2023

10000

1000

900000

108000

180000.00%

26

Our commitment after the token sale phase #1

27

Our team
Volodymyr Panchenko
Founder & CEO
•	

#1 private merchant of digital games in the world (15M
games sold over the past 5 years via Ebay, G2A, Kinguin)

•	

Founder of skins.cash — 2nd biggest virtual items
marketplace (12M items sold over the past year)

•	

Founder and CEO of SunTechSoft

•	

$50M total annual revenue

Alexander «ZeroGravity» Kokhanovskyy
Co-founder
•	

17 years of experience in the e-Sports industry

•	

Founder of Na`Vi (Natus Vincere) - 2nd most popular and
one the most successful e-Sports teams

•	

In 2016 became shareholder of ESforce Holdings - 3rd
biggest e-Sports entity funded by USM Group (Mail.ru, VK
.com, Megafon) with more than $100M of investments in
last round

Sergey Nemesh
CTO
•	

Blockchain development and implementation

•	

10 years of experience in Big Data Solutions development

•	

8 years of experience in AI development and integration
(Smart sensors, Databases)

Andriy Khavryuchenko
Blockchain architect
•	

Senior Developer of DASH cryptocurrency (world top 8,
market cap $1.4B)

•	

4 years of crypto developing

•	

26 years in software development
28

Oleg Panasenko

Project Manager

Alexander Matsenko

Development Tech Lead

Illia Syniakin

Development Tech Lead

Dmitriy Vityuk

Development Tech Lead

Sergey Gudyma
Andrey Zolotarenko

QA Tech Lead
Product Manager

Julia Laznyuk

PR Advisor

Viktoriya Kim

Chief of Media/Content department

Anton Kryvnov
Iryna Loza

Chief Marketing Officer
HR Business Partner

IT back-end
Andrii Nasinnyk
Roman Zhuravel

Anton Tribulkevich
Vladislav Mysiur

Andrey Bobryshev

Rustam Yengalichev

Sergii Cherniavskyi

Vitalii Boiko

IT front-end
Roman Semak
Oleksandr Buchek
Anastasia Barabash
Mike Kovetsky

Bohdan Polishchuk
Nikolay Batashov
Roman Karbushev
Bohdan Kiryanov

Dmitriy Didyk

IT QA
Denys Galyuk

Iryna Huziienko

Svetlana Mankut

IT DevOps
Aleksandr Kryvoruchko

Alexander Samarin

Kostiantyn Kryvasov

System administration
Vladimir Buksha

Vyacheslav Voronkin

Product
Ivan Antipov

Eugene Dzidziguri

Pavel Slobodianiuk
29

Design
Valeriya Bediya

Victoria Leshchenko
Semen Kryuchkov

Marketing, Sales
Anastasiya Drazhnik

Maksym Osnach

Kateryna Medushyvskaia

Oleh Harbar

Sergey Danyliuk

Vladyslav Shvets

PR, SMM, Content
Eugene Bozhenko

Eugenia Ostapenko

Alisa Serbeniuk-Kuchinskaya

Dmitry Karachan

Yana Shevchenko

Vladislav Nazarkin

Hanna Synetska
SEO
Artem Tarasenko

Roman Pinskiy
Andriy Nikitiuk

Support
Dmitry Kravchenko

Vsevolod Kornieiev

Ivan Fesenko

Vladislav Shevchenko

Vitaly Chekalenko

Yuriy Samusenko

Mikhail Tychyna

Vladimir Olekhnovich

Eugene Koziy

Elena Zabolotnaya

Nikita Sergeev

Roman Pilipenko

Artem Porozhnyak

Alexandra Lutsenko
Alexander Mamzurenko

HR
Ulyana Bogdan

Anastasia Zobova

Iryna Zadnipryana

Financial
Tamara Slanova

Olga Tymoshyna

Olena Myronyk
30

Advisory board
Oren Klaff
Managing Director at Intersection Capital
($2 billion in aggregate trade volume across
a diversified portfolio of companies and
transactions), Author of «Pitch Anything»
Bestseller
«The DMarket team knows more about cryptocurrency
and smart transactions than the next five companies
combined. They impressed me with the idea of
combining all known gaming worlds into the one
society, giving players the tools to buy & sell directly
with each other. This is the next generation of
commerce and DMarket is leading it.»

Dr. Moe Levin
CEO of Keynote, a global technology conference
company which has been responsible for over
$250MM of investments into cryptocurrency
and blockchain startups. Co-Founded the first
accredited Blockchain Academy
«There is a tremendous amount of locked-up value
in the world of eSports. Value that has been created
via hard work and skill, but is locked due to a lack of
infrastructure, efficiency, and capabilities. DMarket
streamlines the process by creating an interoperable
marketplace which is game and platform agnostic. With
a marketplace such as this, users are able to unlock and
recover their billions of dollars worth of hard work and
open up even greater possibilities.»

Brian Kerr
Managing Director at GL Ventures, Founder
& CEO Fnatic Gear
«DMarket is a game changer for the game industry! The
Steam marketplace is huge, but this will be on another
level unifying mobile, console, and PC gaming industries
while empowering gamers to monetize their time and
skill.»
31

Igor Matsanyuk
Chairman at Game Insight, Senior ex-Vice
President at Mail.ru, Founder at IMI.VC,
Founder at Farminers
«It seems that this future is already happening: the
virtual goods get real value, while the virtual economics
are setting the rules for the real markets. The DMarket’s
initiative to organize and optimize the in-game assets
ecosystem will set new standards of quality and comfort
for users. It is yet another opportunity for our society of
consumption to reassess its values.»

Oleg Yavorsky
PR & Marketing Director at
Vostok Games
«We seem to be seriously going into virtual worlds, virtual
items and their related economies. DMarket promises to
become a strong foundation in such creation of the worlds,
as far as gaming is concerned. And it’s great to be a part of
that process!»

Evgeniy Grygorovych
Project Leader at GSC Game World
(S.T.A.L.K.E.R., Cossacks game series)
«This is an incredible breakthrough for the whole gaming
world. The DMarket team creates a valuable product,
connecting game developers and the gamers into separate
gaming cluster of the global economy»

32

Denis Dovgopoliy
Founder at GrowthUP, investor,
advisory
«This is one of the most interesting, blockchain related
projects in 2017. Great because industry leaders are working
on it, which should bring an incredible success!»

Igor Karev
CEO at Tatem Games
«There is a huge market for mobile game developers. Many
new and interesting opportunities exist where their time
will be compensated handsomely with the opening of
DMarket. We support the DMarket team in building this
project»

33

Sources
https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/the-global-games-market-will-reach-108-9billion-in-2017-with-mobile-taking-42/
http://www.digi-capital.com/reports/#augmented-virtual-reality
https://www.statista.com/statistics/547025/steam-game-sales-revenue/
https://www.polygon.com/2016/1/4/107 10184/repor t-paid-steam-gamesmarketestimated-at-over-3-5-billion-in-2015
http://store.steampowered.com/stats/
https://steamspy.com/year/
https://www.similarweb.com/website/opskins.com#overview
https://howmuch.net/articles/worlds-money-in-perspective
https://www.superdataresearch.com/market-data/market-brief-year-in-review/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decentralised_system
https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
https://blockgeeks.com/guides/smart-contracts/
http://www.blockchaintechnologies.com/blockchain-smart-contracts
https://support.steampowered.com/kb_article.php?ref=6088-UDXM-7214
https://blockchainhub.net/blockchain-oracles/

34

