ETHEROLL DICE GAME
WHITEPAPER
Draft version 1.2
Please note that this document does not constitute to it being a Prospectus of any sort,
neither do we intend to misrepresent the sale of this sort as being an Initial Public Offering or
Share/Equity offering. This token sale does not involve the exchange of crypto currencies for
any form of Ordinary Shares in Etheroll, neither does the DICE token purchaser receive any
form of dividend that is guaranteed. This crowdfund will not accept fiat currency.

Etheroll Whitepaper
Etheroll is an Ethereum-based dice gambling Dapp that enables individuals to place bets on
the result of a 100-sided dice roll without user deposits or sign-ups, using Ether – the 2nd
most popular cryptocurrency in the world. Players can choose their own odds with our
unique UI and payouts are instant. Game code is built entirely on top of the Ethereum
blockchain, which allows for a level of transparency and accountability that traditional
online casinos simply cannot provide.
Table of contents
1) Abstract
a. Provably-fair
b. Market Opportunity
2) Solution
3) Attributes
4) Our Vision
5) DICE Token
6) DICE Conversion Schedule
7) Use of funds
8) Security
9) Platform Design
a. UI/UX
b. Architecture
10) Timeline
11) Disclaimer
Draft
February 2017

Etheroll Whitepaper
Abstract
Etheroll is a provably-fair Ethereum-based dice gaming Dapp which allows individuals to:
i.

Place bets in units of Ether
The Etheroll dice game has the following characteristics:
a. Transparent source code
b. Players set their own odds
c. No deposits
d. No sign-ups
e. Immediate payouts
f. Competitively low 1% house edge
g. Intuitive web-based user interface

ii.

Bet on the house by holding DICE tokens
100% of all profit Etheroll earns is allocated to token holders. Profit is distributed to
token holders proportional to the number of tokens they hold. DICE token holders
enjoy exposure to every bet made on the platform, with the advantage of the house
edge always being in their favour. Due to the law of large numbers, token holders
should always return a profit. The house edge is 1% which means there is a
consistent 1% expected value (EV) for token holders.

Provably-fair
Our random number generation uses open source blockchain-based Oraclize.it (a provablyhonest oracle service) to retrieve an integer safely from outside of the blockchain. This
integer is supplied by Random.org via TLSNotary. The Etheroll smart-contract then performs
sha3() encryption on the result returned from Random.org and the IPFS address of the
TLSNotary proof to achieve the final dice result.
Currently, this is the safest way for Etheroll to generate its random numbers. This method
ensures potential attacking miners and/or 3rd parties cannot control the final value of our
final dice result.
Etheroll will continue to develop on its random number generation. Etheroll is currently
using the following method for retrieving a random number for the results of its dice game:
Upon receiving a valid bet via the playerRollDice(uint rollUnder) function, our smartcontract queries Oraclize.it via a partially encrypted, nested query. A partially encrypted,
nested query ensures that the API key Etheroll uses to call Random.org remains safe, whilst
publicly exposing our random number request and range, to ensure players the Etheroll
smart-contract is behaving honestly.

Etheroll Whitepaper
To protect the Etheroll API key, Oraclize utilizes an Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption
Scheme composed of the following algorithms:
1. An Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange (ECDH), which uses secp256k1 as curve
and ANSI X9.63 with SHA256 as Key Derivation Function. This algorithm is used to
derive a shared secret from the Oraclize public key and the sender private key.
2. The shared secret is used by an AES-256 in Galois Counter Mode (GCM), an
authenticated symmetric cipher, to encrypt the query. The authentication tag is 16bytes of length and the nonce is chosen to be ‘000000000000’ (96 bits of length),
which is safe because the shared secret is different for every encrypted query.
Oraclize then returns the concatenation of the encoded point (i.e the public key of
the senders), the authentication tag and the encrypted text.
The decrypted query is delivered to Random.org which in turn supplies the JSON response
which includes an integer ranging from 1-100. The following is the Solidity code for this
query:
bytes32 rngId = oraclize_query("nested", "[URL]
['json(https://api.random.org/json-rpc/1/invoke).result.random.data.0',
'\\n{\"jsonrpc\":\"2.0\",\"method\":\"generateSignedIntegers\",\"params\":{\"apiKe
y\":${[decrypt]
BBdNQjoFRtO/Od/8NmPt+rdMjLiRAciRv+NxvI5vtiSSgcrUFT9vx636i0xetTG5Rqy1tWtnG4Uaw7GuVe
b3HDYHoS2WXFYBpoK+XqXQIzcQwzgiyHjyGN+yl1ia581kX0fYb8FLOcFGIvRtx6aas8+mfXpGFvk=},\"
n\":1,\"min\":1,\"max\":100,\"replacement\":true,\"base\":10${[identity]
\"}\"},\"id\":1${[identity] \"}\"}']", gasForOraclize);

The random numbers requested are exactly as expected via the following request:
n\":1,\"min\":1,\"max\":100,\"replacement\":true

This query asks Random.org to return 1 number, a minimum of 1, a maximum of 100, and
each request to be a separate event. Note the encrypted API key as the long sequence of
scrambled characters.
When Random.org receives this query, it recognizes our decrypted API key and uses
atmospheric noise to provide the Etheroll API key with a truly random integer. Atmospheric
noise is caused by natural atmospheric processes, primarily lightning discharges in
thunderstorms. On a worldwide scale, 3.5 million lightning flashes occur daily. This is about
40 lightning flashes per second.
The sum of these lightning flashes results in atmospheric noise, which is observed by a radio
receiver in the form of a combination of white noise and impulse noise.
IPFS stored TLSNotary proof of the transaction proves Oraclize.it did not alter the results
from the Random.org service in anyway. The proof string is exactly the IPFS multi-hash that
identifies the TLSNotary proof. Players will fetch the proof if they wish, for example at
http://ipfs.io/ipfs/proof

Etheroll Whitepaper
At the time the Etheroll smart-contract receives the JSON response of the random number
in the function __callback(bytes32 myid, string result, bytes proof) .
The integer result is sha3() on-chain to produce the final dice result. The following
algorithm ensures the dice result is provably fair for our players:
Let r be the random value returned from Random.org via Oraclize.
Let p be the IPFS address of the PageSigner TLSNotary proof content.

The following Solidity code example is used to produce a provably-fair random number
bounded between l and u inclusive (1, 100) and guaranteed to be evenly distributed across
the range of values.
finalResult = uint(sha3(r, p)) % 100 + 1;

Our smart-contract then calculates the value of the integer finalResult against the original
integer that was submitted by the player (stored as playerNumber) via a mapping to the
player address via the following:
mapping (bytes32 => uint) playerNumber;
function playerRollDice(uint rollUnder){
playerNumber[rngId] = rollUnder;

}
If finalResult is lower than playerNumber submitted by the player, the player wins. At
which point, the smart-contract calculates the required payout and pays bets instantly,
whilst engraving properties of the bet into the Ethereum blockchain (as an event) for a
tamper proof history of all bets.

Opportunity
The market size of the online-gambling industry for 2016 is estimated to be $45 billion USD.
These are impressive numbers. However, online-gambling does not consist entirely of
cryptocurrency gambling alone. Let’s take a closer look at the current cryptocurrency
gambling market. We will first focus our attention on the Bitcoin gambling market, and use
this as a guide towards the future potential market of gambling on top of the world’s 2nd
most popular cryptocurrency, Ether.
i.

ii.
iii.

iv.

Bitcoin currently has a market cap of ~$14 billion USD. [1]
It is estimated that 50-60% of all Bitcoin transactions relate to online gambling. [2]
In the past year, Bitcoin and alt-coin casino revenue was 3,173,833 BTC with a profit
of 15,173.6 BTC. In the same period, 20.83 billion bets have been placed across
Bitcoin casinos. [3]
Bitcoin is currently the largest cryptocurrency by market cap and as such, represents
the largest share of the cryptocurrency gambling market. SatoshiDice launched its

Etheroll Whitepaper
Bitcoin based dice game in 2012 and currently enjoys a lion share of the Bitcoin dice
game market with 134,374 Bitcoin wagered last year alone.
The following table illustrates reported revenue for popular Bitcoin casinos in 2016
[4]:

v.
vi.

Casino

Bets

Wagered

Primedice

11.25 billion

1,222,914 BTC

Bustabit

205.35 million

606,083 BTC

BetKing

321.06 million

256,431 BTC

SatoshiDice

456.94 million

134,374 BTC

BetterBets

375.69 million

64,461 BTC

BitDice

32.17 million

168,726 BTC

The current market cap of Ethereum is ~$965 million.
Ethereum was released in mid 2015 and by early 2016 was the 2nd largest
cryptocurrency by market cap. No other cryptocurrency has seen such tremendous
growth in such a short amount of time. [5]

Ethereum is a disruptive technology, that looks to change the way the world does business.
Ether, which is the native token of Ethereum, is reasonably new to the crypto-currency
market, having only launched in July of 2015. The rise of Ether has been gargantuan in a
very short time, with many predicting its market cap to eventually outnumber that of
Bitcoin, at ~$14 billion.
The Ethereum market cap is currently ~$965 million. The Ethereum market cap grew
extremely quickly, in part, due to the programmable ability to run smart-contracts
(auditable code) on the Blockchain. World banks, large accountant firms (including the big
four), business solutions and application developers are looking at how to leverage this
network to reduce the cost-of-business. This is something Bitcoin is unable to offer.
Hardening efforts of the protocol by the core development team in 2016 suggest an
extremely positive and healthy outlook for the Ethereum protocol. The future of the
Ethereum protocol and its underlying Ether token is looking extremely positive.
Taking the staggering growth of the Ethereum market cap (~$965 million) into account as
well as the numbers related to Bitcoin gambling, Etheroll proposes tremendous opportunity
arising for the traditional style of dice game to be ported over to the Ethereum protocol.
Such a platform requires experienced, honest and reliable operators with a proven track
record, an intuitive web-based interface, adjustable odds, zero deposits, zero sign-ups,

Etheroll Whitepaper
immediate payouts and a team committed to further innovation of their game in the fastpaced environment of Ethereum.

Solution
Etheroll is a service which provides a provably-fair and transparent, web-based Ethereum
dice gambling Ðapp (decentralized application). Etheroll game code is decentralized and
immutable. Players will be 100% confident Etheroll behaves in a provably-fair manner,
thanks to the nature of the Ethereum protocol.
Our smart-contract layer runs entirely on the Ethereum blockchain, it is auditable,
transparent, verifiable and provably-fair.
Etheroll accepts wagers from players in the form of Ether via its unique web-based
interface. The decentralized and immutable nature of our smart-contract layer, ensures
players will bet in units of Ether with 100% confidence their funds are not being held by a
3rd party subject to the risk of hacks, theft, or misconduct by the Etheroll smart contract.
The decentralized nature of the Ethereum protocol also ensures that our smart-contract is
immutable and always available, with no possibility of downtime via DDOS attacks, hosting
issues, and/or government, or other forms of intended interruption to the service.
Players are assured the Etheroll dice game behaves as it is intended to, thanks to the opensource nature of our smart-contracts, which are verifiable by the public.

Attributes
i.

Provably-fair
The result of our random number is provably-fair thanks to the following formula:
Let r be the random value returned from Random.org via Oraclize.
Let p be the IPFS address of the PageSigner TLSNotary proof content.

The following code is then used to produce a provably-fair random number bounded
between l and u inclusive and guaranteed to be evenly distributed across the range
of values.
finalResult = uint(sha3(r, p)) % 100 + 1;

ii.

Players Set Their Own Odds
Players have the power and choice to set their own odds for each dice roll. This
characteristic allows players to adjust each dice roll to suit their individual risk profile,
in turn, increasing the overall enjoyment and user experience of the Etheroll dice
game. Inspiration for this type of game play is drawn from the ‘SatoshiDice style’ of
dice gambling. This is the real dice gambling experience on the Ethereum network.

iii.

A Web-based Web3.js Interface

Etheroll Whitepaper
A friendly and intuitive, Web3.js web-based user interface makes it easy for our
users to place bets and interact with the Ethereum blockchain. User-centric design
and development practices ensure Etheroll will be the easiest dice game to interact
with on the Ethereum protocol. Our intuitive user interface is built with the player in
mind and employs a responsive CSS framework for extra flexibility and maximum
usage by a wide variety of web based clients. This is truly dice gambling on the
Ethereum network the way you imagined it.
iv.

Low House Edge
The Etheroll house edge is currently set to be 1%. Our house edge is also adjustable
to suit the market, so it will always remain competitive.
The house edge is calculated and deducted only in the instance of a win. For
example, if a player places a bet size of 1 Ether at 50/50 odds, the player will be
rewarded a total profit of 0.98 Ether. The commission Etheroll receives in the event
of a loss will be calculated accordingly:
(((betSize * (chanceOfLoss/chanceOfWin)) + betSize) * houseEdgeAsPercent)

In our example, a player placing a bet of 1 Ether at 50/50 odds, with 1% house edge,
if Etheroll loses the bet:
(((1* (50/50))+1)*0.01) =

v.

0.02 Ether commission

A Trusted and Experienced Team
Etheroll are early pioneers in the Ethereum dice gambling space and have real-world
experience working on Ethereum since February of 2016. In June of 2016, Etheroll
was in the middle of its original crowdfund (which was among the top 15 most
successful crypto-currency crowdfunds at the time) when the DAO hack took place.
48 hours later, in the interests of our valued token holders, and on our own volition,
we suspended the crowdfund and refunded the ~$50K that we raised in the few days
the crowdfund was open. Whilst we were not susceptible to the same attack vector
that the DAO was, we decided the simplest and absolute safest option was to refund
all Ether and run the crowdfund again at a later date.
Since June 2016 Etheroll has researched, coded, implemented, and coded again,
security oriented programming (SOP) techniques for Solidity and hired independent
3rd party security auditors (Piper Merriam - independent of Consensys) to audit our
Ethereum smart contracts. We are proud to announce that we have recently
received a ‘pass’ on the security audit of our core game and crowdfund contracts.
Etheroll’s recent history proves it has the experience, honesty, and technical know-

Etheroll Whitepaper
how to accomplish its goals, as proven by our recent crowdfund ‘success’ in June of
2016. Etheroll considers the postponed crowdfund in June of 2016 to be a
tremendous success. After successfully refunding 100% of the Ether within 48 hours
of the DAO hack, our valued token holders were pleased with the speed, honesty
and transparency of our actions. Trust is earnt in the cryptocurrency community. We
have earnt that trust from the Ethereum community over the past year. [6]
vi.

In-house Solidity Programmers
All Solidity smart-contract code for Etheroll is written in-house. This means Etheroll
is extremely nimble and will adapt quickly in an ever-changing Ethereum
environment at low cost without the need to set aside a budget or waste precious
time pursuing trusted, experienced and competent programmers. We are open to
innovation and will continue to improve the quality and overall experience of our
dice game. Faster processing times, and an improved RNG are areas of focus moving
forward.

vii.

No deposits, no sign-ups
Traditional online casinos retain player deposits and/or wins until a withdraw
request is made by the player. Usually, withdraw requests take time, sometimes
days, and expose traditional online casino models as a prime target for hackers
and/or malicious employees who may see an opportunity to steal player funds.
Thanks to the nature of the Ethereum blockchain and the design patterns we have
chosen, the Etheroll smart-contract does not require players to sign up for an
account, or deposit Ether to play Etheroll. We only accept Ether from players at the
time that they place their bets. This significantly reduces the risk profile of Etheroll
compared to the traditional online casino model.

viii.

Open source and verifiable
The Etheroll source code is open source and verifiable. Players and DICE token
holders alike are free to verify the game does indeed do what it says. This unique set
of characteristics allows for an environment that keeps Etheroll honest and levels
the playing field in the online gambling space between players and the house.

ix.

Cryptographically Secure
The properties and values of each bet are engraved into the blockchain in a tamperproof manner. This provides irrefutable proof of the history of all bets. At any time,
players will review their bet history with 100% confidence there is no room for
tampering or corruption of betting results by Etheroll. Thanks to the nature of the
Ethereum protocol, all bets submitted to Etheroll are cryptographically secure in
nature when they are transcribed into the blockchain. At any point in time, players

Etheroll Whitepaper
have the ability to review details about any bets.
x.

True ‘Dice Gameplay’
Dice gambling is by far the most popular game in of all cryptocurrency gambling. The
ability for players to choose their own odds is integral to dice games and is what
makes the traditional dice game so popular. Our unique web-based UI empowers the
player by allowing them to set their own odds.

xi.

#1 in SEO
Thanks to our expertise in SEO, Etheroll ranks extremely highly in organic Google
search results for the term “Ethereum dice”, “Ethereum gambling”, “Ethereum
casino”. We will continue to see growth in this area.

Our vision
Our future, and data from existing Bitcoin online gambling sites tell an interesting story.
SatoshiDice is an existing Bitcoin game that runs on the Bitcoin blockchain and can be used
as an insight into the potential future market size of gambling on the Ethereum protocol:
“Responsible for more than 50% of daily network volume on the Bitcoin blockchain,
SatoshiDice reported first year earnings from wagering at an impressive ฿33,310
($13,740,000). During the year, players bet a total of ฿1,787,470 in 2,349,882
individual bets at an average monthly growth rate of 78%. Earnings were calculated
from eight months of data covering May to December, 2012.” [7]
Etheroll will play a significant role in the future of the gambling online using Ethereum
thanks to the following characteristics of the platform:
i.
ii.
iii.

iv.
v.
vi.
vii.

Players will choose their own odds.
No deposits, no sign-ups.
Our web interface is easy and intuitive for players to place bets. Designed from the
ground up to appeal to a wide audience used to ‘SatoshiDice style betting’, Etheroll
is the first Ethereum dice game to truly offer a similar experience on the Ethereum
protocol.
Early first mover advantage – the network effect.
Low house edge. Our 1% house edge is the lowest on Ethereum.
A nimble in-house development team that is quick to react to development advances
in Ethereum, focus includes advances in RNG and bet processing times.
Honest and experienced team.

Ethereum is the 2nd largest crypto-currency by market cap at ~$965 million. Many believe
the Ethereum market cap will eventually be equal to or higher than that of Bitcoin. We
envision explosive growth in the future of Ether and Ether dice gambling.
The Etheroll smart-contract development phase is 100% complete and scheduled for launch

Etheroll Whitepaper
March of 2017. Our 6-month goal is to gain at least a 60% market share of the current online
gambling marketplace on the Ethereum blockchain and from there world domination.

DICE Token (DICE)
The DICE token is an Ethereum ERC20 standard token with additional custom functionality
for the purposes of being used within the Etheroll ecosystem. The DICE token is minted in a
once-off event during our strictly limited 14-day token creation phase.
Each DICE token grants its owner the following rights and has the following characteristics:
Direct earnings – Proportional to the number of tokens they hold. Token holders as a
collective receive 100% of the Ether generated by the game. Ether is generated by the game
via players losing bets and the built-in 1% house-edge. Tokens holders are exposed to each
bet that is processed on the platform with the advantage of the 1% house-edge always
being in their favour.
Fully transferable p2p – The DICE token will be fully exchangeable p2p and available for
trade on exchanges.
Voting rights – The DICE token enables holders to vote on proposals set-forth by the
Etheroll team. For example, lowering or raising the house edge, or, adding a new game to
the suite.

Conversion Schedule
The DICE Token is strictly limited in supply. Minted only during our token creation phase for
a total of 14 days there is a total of 25,000,000 DICE tokens are on offer. There will never be
another mintage of DICE tokens.
Start Date: The token creation phase begins 10:00 UTC February 13th 2017
Duration: 14 days.
Week 1: 200 DICE (ROL) tokens for 1 ETH (Ξ)
Week 2: 100 DICE (ROL) tokens for 1 ETH (Ξ)
Total supply: 25,000,000
The crowdfund address: 0x805129C7144688224c122c924E3855D5b4FA01D8
The founding team is pre-allocated 2.5m tokens. Any tokens that remain unsold after the
token creation phase will be destroyed to rule out the possibility of dilution. The number of
tokens remaining after the destruction of unsold tokens is the final mintage. No other
tokens will ever be created.
Use of funds:

Etheroll Whitepaper
i.

ii.

80% of all Ether raised during the crowdfund becomes the house bankroll to pay
winning bets. Token holders as a collective receive 100% of profits the house
bankroll generates.
20% of all Ether raised during the crowdfund period is sent to Etheroll to continue
funding development of the platform.

Security
Our smart-contracts are subject to 3rd party security audits, conducted by Piper Merriam
(independent of Consensys). Each smart contract we deploy to main-net is subject to the
following internal security protocol. Internal live/automated Truffle testing phases, 3rd party
security audit phase. Contracts are deployed from in-house private-chains to Ropsten (testnet) for live testing, only after internal live testing has been satisfied, contracts are then
deployed to main-net.
We will not deploy a smart-contract that has not been signed off by an 3rd party
independent security audit. Signed off 3rd party independent security audits are available for
perusal for the entire suite of our smart-contracts.

Platform Design
UI/UX
Players are able to place bets and change their odds with our dice game directly on our
website using the Mist browser and our intuitive UI.
You will find a video demonstration of our UI/UX at youtube.com/watch?v=8moxZOwd39M.
If you would prefer to experience it in full for yourself, please load etheroll.com using the
Mist browser available here then follow the instructions under our “How to Play” tab.
Alternatively, you can use the Google Chrome extension Metamask to place bets.

Etheroll Whitepaper

A screenshot of our UI. Note the slider (bottom left) which allows players to adjust their own odds.

Architecture Overview
The structure of the Etheroll application is comprised of 4 smart contracts, each of them
handling a different aspect of the platform. Etheroll employs a modular approach in the
design of its smart-contract architecture, to ensure integrity and safety of the ecosystem.
For example, the Game contract does not have any function during the crowdfunding
period, nor does the Crowdfund contract interact with day-to-day game play.
The following outlines the core functionality for each contract, and its current development
status:
Game contract
Status: Completed
Security audit available: Yes
Responsible only for accepting and processing all bets via the playerRollDice(uint
rollUnder) function. This is the smart-contract that a player interacts with. This contract
manages things like the house-edge, minimum bet, maximum bet, random number
generation, calculation of payouts, calculation of refunds.
Crowdfund contract
Status: Completed
Security audit available: Yes
Responsible only for accepting Ether only during the crowdfunding period. At the end of the
crowdfund period 80% of Ether raised will be moved from this contract to the multi-sig

Etheroll Whitepaper
wallet contract and from there Ether is sent to the Game contract for actual game play. If
the funding goal is not reached, Ether raised is available for withdraw by each token holder
via the safeWithdraw() function.
Token contract
Status: Completed
Security audit available: Yes
Responsible only for distributing tokens during the crowdfunding period and tracking the
token balance of an address, this contract allows for token transfers to take place on
exchanges except during Reward payout periods, which locks the token for security
purposes. The Etheroll Token contract is a standard ERC-20 token with added functionality
for use of the token within the Etheroll ecosystem. The DICE token will not be tradeable
until 13 weeks after the start of the crowdfund campaign.
Rewards contract
Status: Work in progress
Security audit available: TBC
Responsible only for calculating the amount of Ether rewards available for withdraw by each
token holder’s address. Only token holders have the special rights to interact with the
Rewards contract. Every 12 weeks, profit accumulated from the game is sent to this
contract. This contract enables token holders to withdraw Ether rewards proportional to
their DICE token ownership for 5 days, every 12 weeks. If a token holder does not withdraw
their rewards during the 5-day reward period, their rewards for that phase are forfeit. 100%
of any profit the Game contract generates is distributed to token holders, proportional to
their ownership of DICE tokens.

Timeline
2016: Development of game code & website – complete
November 2016: In-house game testing - ongoing
January 2017: Security audit of game code – complete
December 2016: Development of crowdfund code – complete
January 2017: Announcement & White Paper release - complete
January 2017: Security audit of crowdfund code – complete
January 2017: Crowdfund public awareness – ongoing
February 2017: Crowdfund opens – February 13th 2017
February 2017: Crowdfund closes – February 27th 2017
May 2017: DICE token listed on exchanges
2017: Continued marketing, research & development into new games and/or random
number generation techniques to continue improvement and growth of core offering.

Disclaimer
RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH THE ETHEROLL DICE TOKEN

Etheroll Whitepaper
DICE (ROL) is a cryptographic token used to represent a % ownership in the initial Etheroll
bankroll. Owners of DICE are eligible to receive rewards in the form of Ether based on the
performance of the bankroll. Owners of DICE are exposed to the wins and losses.
DICE is not a crypto currency
At the time of this writing, DICE (i) cannot be exchanged for goods
or services, (ii) has no known uses outside the Etheroll platform, and (iii) cannot currently be
traded on any known exchanges.
DICE is not an investment
There is no guarantee that the DICE you purchase will increase in value and/or provide any
return.
DICE is not evidence of ownership or right to control
Controlling DICE does not grant its controller ownership or equity in the Etheroll platform as
a whole. DICE does not necessarily grant any right to participate in the control, the direction
or decision-making of the Etheroll platform.
Risk of losing access to DICE due to loss of credentials
The purchaser’s DICE can only be accessed with login credentials selected by the purchaser.
The loss of these credentials will result in the loss of DICE. Best practices dictate that
purchasers safely store credentials in one or more backup locations geographically
separated from the working location.
Risk of losing Ether, due to lucky players
There is a risk that due to the variance in gambling, the house bankroll could be bankrupted
and token holders lose their initial investment.
Risks associated with the Ethereum protocol
DICE and the Etheroll platform are based upon the Ethereum protocol. As such, any
malfunction,
unintended function or unexpected functioning of the Ethereum protocol may cause the
Etheroll
platform or DICE to malfunction or function in an unexpected or unintended manner. Ether,
the
native unit of account of the Ethereum Protocol may itself lose value.
Risk of unfavorable regulatory action in one or more jurisdictions
Blockchain technologies have been the subject of scrutiny by various regulatory bodies
around
the world. The functioning of the Etheroll platform and DICE could be impacted by one or
more
regulatory inquiries or actions, including but not limited to restrictions on the use or
possession

Etheroll Whitepaper
of digital tokens like DICE, which could impede or limit the development of the Etheroll
platform.
Risk of competition
Following the token sale and the development of the initial version of the Etheroll platform,
it is
possible that alternative Ethereum gambling platforms could be established, which utilize
the
same open source code and open source protocol underlying the Etheroll platform. The
Etheroll platform may have to compete with these alternative platforms, which could
potentially negatively impact the performance of the Etheroll platform and DICE.
Risk of insufficient interest in Etheroll or distributed applications
It is possible that the Etheroll platform will not be used by large numbers of individuals, and
that there will be limited public interest in the creation and development of distributed
applications. Such a lack of interest could impact the development of the Etheroll platform
and therefore the potential uses or value of DICE.
Risk that the Etheroll platform, as developed, will not meet the expectations of the token
holder
The Etheroll platform is presently under development and may undergo significant changes
before
its full release. Any expectations regarding the form and functionality of DICE or the Etheroll
platform held by the purchaser may not be met upon release, for any number of reasons
including a change in
the design and implementation plans and execution of the Etheroll platform.
Risk of theft and hacking
Hackers or other groups or organizations may attempt to interfere with the Etheroll
platform or the
availability of DICE in any number of ways, including without limitation denial of service
attacks,
Sybil attacks, spoofing, smurfing, malware attacks, or consensus-based attacks.
Risk of security weaknesses in the Etheroll platform
The Etheroll platform consists of software that is based on open-source software. There is a
risk that the Etheroll team, or other third parties may intentionally or unintentionally
introduce weaknesses or bugs into the core infrastructural elements of the Etheroll
platform, interfering with the use of or causing the loss of DICE and/or ETH.
Risk of weaknesses or exploitable breakthroughs in the field of cryptography
Advances in cryptography, or technical advances such as the development of quantum
computers, could present risks to crypto currencies and the Etheroll platform, which could
result in
the theft or loss of DICE and/or ETH.

Etheroll Whitepaper
Risk of lack of adoption or use of the Etheroll platform
While DICE should not be viewed as an investment, it may return value over time. That
value may
be limited if the Etheroll platform lacks use and adoption. If this becomes the case, there
may be
few or no profits to draw from, or even a loss of your initial investment.
Risk of an unfavorable fluctuation of Ethereum value
The Etheroll team intends to use part of the proceeds of the DICE token sale (20%) to fund
further development of the Etheroll platform. The proceeds of the DICE token sale will be
denominated in Ethereum. If the value of Ethereum fluctuates unfavorably during or after
the token sale, the Etheroll team may not be able to fund development, or may not be able
to develop the platform in the manner that it intended or promised.
Risk of malfunction in the Etheroll platform
It is possible that the Etheroll platform malfunctions in an unfavorable way, including but
not
limited to one that results in the loss of DICE and/or ETH.
Unanticipated risks
Crypto-currency is a relatively new and untested technology. In addition to the risks set
forth here, there are risks that the Etheroll team cannot anticipate. Risks may further
materialize as unanticipated combinations or variations of the risks set forth here.

References
1. Source: [https://blockchain.info/charts/market-cap]
2. Source: [http://lsvp.com/2013/08/23/at-least-half-of-all-bitcoin-transactions-are-for-online3.
4.
5.
6.

7.

gambling/]
Source: [https://thebitcoinstrip.com/stats/2015-01-02-to-2016-12-25]
Source: [https://thebitcoinstrip.com/stats/2015-01-02-to-2016-12-25]
Source: [https://coinmarketcap.com/]
Source:
[https://www.reddit.com/r/etheroll/comments/4ooyod/crowdsale_now_closed_eth_has_been_refu
nded/]
Source: [http://www.forbes.com/sites/jonmatonis/2013/01/22/bitcoin-casinos-release-2012earnings/#8039cf650cb2]

