Whitepaper

CONTENTS

1.

ABSTRACT

1

1.1

What is iDice

1

1.2

Provably Fair

1

2.

INTRODUCTION

2

2.1

Market Analysis

2

2.2

iDice Solution

3

3.

OUR VISION

4

3.1

Mission Statement

4

3.2

Executive Summary

4

3.3

Development Roadmap

5

3.4

iDice Mobile

5

4.

TOKEN CREATION EVENT

6

4.1

Details

6

4.2

How to Join

6

5.

iDice TOKEN

7

5.1

Ownership Rights

7

5.2

Conversion Schedule

7

5.3

iDice Token Architecture

8

5.4

Other Features

8

6.

Use of Funds

9

7.

Disclaimer

10

1.
ABSTRACT
1.1 What is iDice
iDice is a dice gambling Dapp powered by the Ethereum network. iDice allows players to:
•

Place bets in units of Ether.

•

Bet on the house by holding iDice tokens.

100% of all profit iDice earns is distributed amongst token holders, proportional to the number
of tokens they hold. eg. If you hold 5% of all tokens, you will receive 5% of all profit generated
by iDice. iDice token holders enjoy the advantage of the house edge always being in their favor.
Token holders should always return a profit according to the law of large numbers. The house
edge will be set competitively and token holders have an expected value that is always equivalent to the house edge.
iDice has a fully transparent source code available at etherscan.io. iDice does not require deposits nor sign ups. The payout of games is always immediate.

1.2 Provably Fair

iDice uses open source blockchain-based Oraclize.it to
retrieve a random integer supplied by Random.org via
TLSNotary. The iDice smart contract then performs encryption on the integer provided by Random.org and the
IPFS address of the TLSNotary proof to compute the
game result.
This method is the safest and most reliable method for
iDice to generate random numbers without 3rd party interference of the game’s final result. You find our contract source code on our website iDice.io under the
“Contracts” section of the main menu. Our contracts are
available to the public on etherscan.io

1

2.
INTRODUCTION
2.1 Market Opportunity
The market size of the world-wide online gambling industry is estimated to be $ 47.11 billion
USD. At the time of this writing, Bitcoin has a market cap of $40.9 billion USD with roughly
$1.56 billion USD worth of BTC being exchanged every 24 hour period[1]. It is estimated that at
least 50% of all these transactions are gambling related[2].
Ethereum has a Market Cap of $21.5 billion USD[1], with roughly
$550.8 million worth of Ether exchanged every 24 hour period
[1]
. Due to the programmable ability to run smart-contracts on
the blockchain, large international institutions are beginning to
find ways to leverage this network to reduce business costs.
This is the primary advantage Ethereum has over bitcoin.
Ethereum has experience tremendous growth over the past
year, with prices rising by a factor of 21. Such tremendous
growth rates highlight a growing need for experienced, honest
and reliable Dapps.
In addition, there is a huge opportunity in blockchain gambling
that exists in mobile development. Today, the majority of internet traffic come from mobile devices. It is reported that 60% of all searches[3] and the majority of all internet traffic are coming
from mobile devices. Internet traffic coming from mobile platforms has surpassed desktops in
2016[4], and that number is still growing today.

1. Source: [https://coinmarketcap.com/]
2. Source: [http://lsvp.com/2013/08/23/at-least-half-of-all-bitcoin-transactions-are-for-online-gambling/]
3. Source: [http://www.smartinsights.com/mobile-marketing/mobile-marketing-analytics/mobile-marketing
-statistics/]
4. Source: [http://searchengineland.com/report-nearly-60-percent-searches-now-mobile-devices-255025]

2

2.2 iDice Solution
iDice is a service which provides a provably-fair and transparent, web-based Ethereum dice
gambling Dapp. iDice game code is decentralized and immutable. Players can play on iDice.io
knowing that iDice behaves in a provably-fair manner, thanks to the nature of the Ethereum
protocol.
Our smart contract layer runs entirely on the Ethereum Blockchain.
•

Auditable

•

Transparent

•

Verifiable

The Decentralized Nature of Ethereum protocol ensures that iDice is immutable and always
available, with no possibility of downtime via DDOS attacks, hosting issues, or other forms of
intended interruption to the service.
iDice is not looking to compete with pre-existing gambling Dapps like vDice and Etheroll. We
seek to find our own niche in the mobile app market by specifically targetting mobile users.
There is currently no other mobile gambling app in the sector. Our mobile gambling app will be
the first of its kind and will grant us a monopoly over mobile gambling that will last for several
months before there will be any competitors that enter the segment. By the time competitors
enter the market, our mobile app will already feature multiple game types such as blackjack,
slots, roulettes and more, guaranteeing our top position in the mobile app segment.

3

3.
Our Vision
3.1 Mission Statement
Our mission at iDice is to provide the best open source platform for decentralized gambling
that offers a smooth and reliable user experience without any sacrifice in safety and security of
our users.

3.2 Executive Summary

iDice is a platform for fully decentralized blockchain gambling Dapps. Powered by the Ethereum
network, we are the world’s first fully decentralized gambling Dapp. The iDice platform provides our players with a fully transparent and fair gambling experience without the use of any
server architecture. All our games compute results through an oracle and are completely open
source, allowing us to provide the smoothest and most reliable experience without any compromise in the safety and security of our users.
iDice users can relax knowing that their wallets are not at risk of getting hacked when using the
iDice platform. Unlike traditional gambling Dapps such as SatoshiDICE, there are no servers, no
accounts, and no deposits required on the iDice platform. Our players can play our games from
the safety of their own wallets. Our platform’s trust and safety is guaranteed by the Ethereum
blockchain.
iDice’s revolutionary platform is open source, which means anyone can use our platform to create their own gambling Dapp and utilize the iDice brand. Players can play these games knowing
that they can put their trust in the code without having to worry about any conflict of interest
with the developers.

4

3.3 Development Roadmap

Our mission at iDice is to provide the best open source platform for decentralized gambling
that offers a smooth and reliable user expeience without any sacrifice in safety and security of
our users.

3.4 iDice Mobile

To this date, there is still a lack of a high performance mobile
gambling app that is powered by Blockchain Technology. We
believe that mobile development is a huge opportunity for the
iDice platform to showcase its superior performance over its
competitors. iDice Mobile will be the worlds first fully decentralized mobile gambling app so that iDice will stay with our users wherever they go.

5

4.
Token Creation Event
4.1 Details
iDice token creation event will commence on June 12, 2017 at UTC 0:00 and end on June 26,
2017 at UTC 0:00.
•

Only Ether can be contributed and turned into iDice tokens

•

The token sale will last 14 days

•

iDice tokens will be distributed in response to ETH contributions

•

No more iDice tokens will be created after this period

•

Contributions within the first hour will have a creation ratio of 200:1 ETH

•

Contributions within the first 7 days will have a creation ratio of 170:1 ETH

•

Contributions within the last 7 days will have a creation ratio of 130:1 ETH

•

500,000 tokens will be pre-allocated to the development team.

•

Any tokens that remain unsold after the token creation phase will be destroyed.

4.2 How to Join
1. Go to: https://crowdsale.idice.io
2. Click the button that says “JOIN OUR CROWDSALE”
3. Follow the instructions prompted by the site

4. You can claim your tokens once the crowdsale is over.

6

5.
iDice TOKENS
The iDice token is a standard Ethereum ERC 20 token with additional functionality for the purpose of being used within the iDice ecosystem. iDice tokens are minted in a one off event during our limited 14 day token creation phase.

5.1 Ownership Rights
Each iDice token grants the owner the following rights:
•

Direct Earnings–Proportional to the number of tokens they hold. Token holders as a collective receive 100% of the profit generated by iDice. Ether is generated by the game via
players losing bets. Token holders are exposed to each bet that is processed on the
platform with the advantage of the 1% house-edge always being in their favor. The profit
from iDice is sent to the token contract and is accumulated in its balance.

•

Fully Transferrable—The iDice token will be fully exchangeable and available for trade on
exchanges.

5.2 Conversion Schedule
iDice tokens are limited in supply. Minted only during our token creation phase for a total of 14
days, there is a total of 5,000,000 iDice tokens on offer. The development team will be pre allocated 500,000 tokens.
START DATE: June 12, 2017 at UTC 00:00

END DATE: June 26, 2017 at UTC 00:00
Each token holder gets an amount of token proportional to the ETH they deposit into the
crowdsale (ICO), in these ratios:
iDice Power Hour (1st hour of launch): 200:1 ETH
First 7 days: 170:1 ETH
Last 7 days: :130:1 ETH
Total supply: 5,000,000

7

5.3 iDice Token Architecture (ICE TOKENS)
ICE tokens are standard ERC 20 smart contracts. They will be fully transferable and will grant
the token holder the right to claim a portion of iDice’s profits in proportion to the total # of ICE
tokens. Eg. If someone has 20,000 ICE tokens and there is a total of 5million tokens, they will be
entitled to have (200,000/5,000,000*100%)=4% of all profit that iDice generates.
We are in the midst of having our tokens listed on various exchanges. Token holders will be free
to buy and sell ICE tokens once they are listed.

5.4 Other Features
iDice tokens are the safest and simplest approach to distribute iDice game profits to investors.
There will be a separate smart contract that token holders can excute with withdraw the iDice
profits they are entitled to. Token holders will be able withdraw profits every month. (Note: We
are working hard to automate the profit withdrawl process so this may be improved and updated in the future.)
iDice tokens are fully transferable and exchangeable on exchanges. We are currently in the
midst of contacting exchanges to get listed

8

6.
USE OF FUNDS
35% of all Ether raised during the crowdfund will become the house bankroll to pay winning
bets. Token Holders as a collective receive 100% of iDice game profits.

30% of all Ether raised will be used by iDice development team to fund further development of
the iDice Platform, as well as to fund the development and implementation of other game
types on the iDice platform.

20% of all Ether raised will be used in the development and launch of the world’s first mobile
blockchain gambling app, which will be available for both Android and IOS Devices.

15% of all Ether raised will be used for promotion and marketing purposes.

*These numbers are on a projection and may change depending on the amount raised from the crowdsale. *

9

7.
DISCLAIMER
iDice tokens are native of the iDice blockchain Dapp. It cannot be deemed to be any kind of equity of any real-world company. This Initial Crowdsale-Offering is not distributing equity of iDice
in anyway. There are always technological, political and market risks associated with the Blockchain industry. iDice is not responsible for any losses that occur due these risks.

10

