The iEx.ec project
Blueprint For a Blockchain-based Fully Distributed Cloud
Infrastructure

White Paper
March 18th, 2017
Version 2.0

Release Candidate

Page 2 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

1. Vision
Building a Fully Distributed Cloud for Blockchain-based
Distributed Applications
iEx.ec aims at providing distributed applications running on the blockchain a scalable, secure and easy
access to the services, the data-sets and the computing resources they need. This technology
relies on the Ethereum smart contracts and allows building a virtual Cloud infrastructure that provides
high-performance computing services on demand.
iEx.ec leverages a set of research technologies that have been developed at the INRIA and CNRS
research institutes in the field of Desktop Grid computing. The idea of Desktop Grid (aka Volunteer
Computing) is to collect the computer resources underutilized on the Internet to execute very large
parallel applications at the fraction of the cost of a traditional supercomputer.
iEx.ec relies on XtremWeb-HEP, a mature, solid, and open-source Desktop Grid software which
implements all the needed features: fault-tolerance, multi-applications, multi-users, hybrid public/private
infrastructure, deployment of virtual images, data management, security and accountability, and many
more.
iEx.ec is developing a new Proof-of-Contribution protocol, that will allow off-chain consensus.
Thanks to the Proof-of-Contribution, external resource providers will have their resources’ usage
certified directly in the blockchain. iEx.ec aims to deploy a scalable, high-performance, secure and
manageable infrastructure sidechain that will promote a new form of distributed governance, implying
key HPC, Big Data and Cloud industry leaders.
We believe in a future of decentralised infrastructure and market network, where Big Data and HPC
applications, highly valued data-sets, and computing resources (storage, CPU, GPU ...) will be
monetized on the blockchain with the highest level of transparency, resiliency and security - and
iEx.ec as the key platform powering this future!

iEx.ec is just the beginning of a new era!

Page 3 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

2. The Team
iEx.ec is built upon the work our team members have done at the INRIA and CNRS research institutes
in the field of Desktop Grid computing since 2000. Our breakthrough innovations in the area of large
scale data processing, data management, parallel computing, security and dependability, QoS
technologies and interoperability have resulted in over 80 top-quality scientific papers in top scientific
conferences and journals.
The iEx.ec team was instrumental in establishing the European Desktop Grid Infrastructure,
transparently executing millions of jobs on more than 200.000 nodes and working with organisations
like Large Hadron Collider. We had been in constant relationship with key industrial companies like
Total, Airbus, Orange, IFP Energy, as well as innovative startups.
From 2012 to 2014, Gilles Fedak, Haiwu He, Oleg Lodygensky and Mircea Moca were seeking solutions
for implementing a distributed Cloud based on Desktop Grid technology. A serious drawback was the
lack of a mechanism to register and prove the contribution of participants - of different natures:
application, data, computing resources and even human expertise.
In 2015, Gilles Fedak discovered the Ethereum technology and first started to use smart contracts to
implement distributed resource management. Now we are confident that the conjunction of Desktop
Grid computing and blockchain has the potential to disrupt the whole Cloud, Big Data, and HPC
economy.
Since the beginning of 2016, the core team has rapidly expanded to include blockchain hackers,
business developers and PR specialists. From a research project, iEx.ec is now a company, whose
headquarters are in Lyon, France, also with a subsidiary incubated at the famous Tsinghua University
X-elerator in Beijing, China.

Page 4 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

Founders

Gilles Fedak
CEO, co-founder

Haiwu He
Chief scientist, co-founder

Inventors
Mircea Moca
Business developer,
Fintech expert, inventor

Oleg Lodygensky
Technical leader, inventor

Core developers

Mehdi Amari
Blockchain Developer

Hamid Ben
Blockchain Expert

Jose Francisco Saray
Data Management

Communication & PR

Agnes Fedak
Communication

Julien Berenger
Community Manager

Heithem Abbes
System Architect

Page 5 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

3. Problem
3.1. Blockchain computing challenges
Blockchains like Ethereum offer a new approach to run decentralized applications; often called DApps
in this context. Ethereum allows programmers to write smart contracts - code which is executed on
the blockchain virtual machine. This represents a potential revolution in designing and executing
services like investment, finance, crowdfunding, internet of things, insurance, prediction markets,
gambling, distributed data processing, and others - in essence, disrupting a wide swath of incumbents.
Despite their unique promise, blockchains offer very limited computing capacities to run
decentralized applications: few kilobytes of storage, very inefficient virtual machine and very high
latency protocol. Eventually, blockchain technology will evolve to overcome some of these issues, but
there will be a growing need to provide additional capacities to all but the simplest applications.

3.2 Traditional computing infrastructure challenges
The existing Clouds cannot fulfill the requirements of DApps that need fully decentralized infrastructures
for their execution.
Meanwhile, there is a growing demand for computing power from industries and scientific communities
to run large applications and process huge volumes of data. The computing power to run Big Data
application is most often provided by Cloud and High Performance Computing (HPC) infrastructures.
However, Cloud and HPC infrastructure is complex and expensive. That means that innovative
small businesses often don’t have the means and the expertise to acquire and operate HPC platforms,
while traditional Cloud infrastructure vendors like Amazon AWS are still very expensive for demanding
applications (e.g. GPU rendering). Furthermore, data-centers consume a lot of energy for running the
servers and the cooling systems, which is costly and impact negatively the environment.
We need a new form of distributed Cloud that can enable blockchain computing and lower the cost of
infrastructure usage.

Page 6 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

4. Solution
4.1 Technical overview
iEx.ec will support the emerging class of blockchain-based distributed applications and enable costeffective high-performance computing by building a distributed Cloud infrastructure.
A Blockchain-based Distributed Cloud will allow on-demand, secure and low-cost access to the most
competitive computing infrastructures. DApps will rely on iEx.ec to automatically search, find, provision,
use, release all the computing resources they need: applications, data, and servers.

Thus, we envision a new eco-system of companies offering storage, computer farms, data providers,
web hosting, SaaS applications, and all making business to others through iEx.ec. The Distributed Cloud
will open new markets for aggressive usage of existing computing infrastructure. To lower the
amount of energy required to run the servers and the air conditioning systems, servers can be pushed
out of the data center. By easing the access to such machines, a Distributed Cloud would allow to
drastically decrease the environmental footprint of data centers, while bringing the data closer to
their producers and consumers.

Page 7 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

4.2 Core Value Proposition
iEx.ec addresses the needs of all the distributed computing ecosystem participants:
● DApps providers so that they can perform off-chain computations on demand.
● Application providers can radically lower the computing costs of their distributed applications
by using safe, robust and reliable iEx.ec infrastructure.
● Data providers can expand their potential market size by integrating their services with iEx.ec
Cloud.
● Server providers can monetize underused computing resources and increase the return on
investment on their existing infrastructure by seeking higher profits in providing their servers to
the iEx.ec distributed Cloud.

Existing infrastructure providers
iEx.ec allows rapid monetisation of existing computing resources for home users or additional
monetisation for existing infrastructure providers like miners. Functionalities like sharing spare cycles,
using servers in a compensatory approach and usage of resources from different providers without the
hassle of resource management allows new use cases and simple additional monetisation.

Distributed applications or Cloud infrastructure users
iEx.ec will provide computing resources to distributed applications at a much lower cost than traditional
blockchain computing resources, helping them drive more value for their customers. Transparent
reputation of resource providers will reward reliable providers, with integrated Quality-of-Service
controls providing the required level of computing resources. Support for different resource providers
and full visibility into partial contributions from each provider will also contribute to transparency.

4.3 Key technological advancements
Developing a robust distributed computing market network requires several technical breakthroughs:
● Development of a Proof-of-Contribution protocol to offer provable consensus, traceability,
and trust
● Development of smart contracts to enable acquisition and provisioning of computing
resources and automatic post-execution payment
● Development of technology that allows DApps to access off-chain computing resources on
demand
● Development of technology to advertise and utilize computing resources on the market
network
● Developing a solid quality
● Implementing support for Service Level Agreements in resource utilisation by tracing
resource usage and providing verification of SLA fulfillment to both customer and provider
The upcoming solutions proposed by iEx.ec will position it as the world’s premier distributed computing
market - and with a proof of concept that is running today!

Page 8 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

5. Why now
Convergence of several trends has created the optimal business environment for a distributed Cloud
infrastructure.
First, the emergence of blockchain Proof-of-work tokens of value has resulted in vast pools of
computing resources that are optimised to seek the highest return on investment, providing ample
resources on the supply side.
Second, smart contracts have reached the point where they can include all the complexity of a
market network for distributed computing resources, vastly simplifying the infrastructure.
And third, in addition to traditional Cloud computing users, a new breed of distributed applications is
coming into prominence, disrupting the incumbents and showing potential great promise for the
future.

Page 9 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

6. Market
6.1 DApps market
iEx.ec will deliver the essential building blocks on which our customers rely to run their applications.
Firstly we will focus on the requirements of DApp providers allowing them to perform off-chain
computations. These promising applications have recently created big expectations for entrepreneurs
from different industries. By their nature, these applications are decentralized, hence being the perfect
candidates for the goals of iEx.ec. The blockchain applications market is estimated to have a significant
annual compound growth rate of 61.5%, reaching $2.3bn in 2021. Among the main blockchain
technology vendors are Microsoft Corporation (U.S.), IBM Corporation (U.S.), Deloitte (U.S.), Ripple
(U.S.).

6.2 Traditional Cloud market
Then we will allow traditional Cloud services to be run in a new fashion within our distributed Cloud,
enhanced by the Ethereum blockchain and iEx.ec sidechain. More precisely, iEx.ec will provide Compute
and Service management services through a configurable resource management service, adapting the
provisioned resources to particular use cases and execution behaviors. In the recent years, we see a
stabilized increasing rate for the IaaS market. Therefore, iEx.ec is entering a promising, developing
market (currently with the fastest growing rate).

Also, the Cloud IaaS market is growing fast, displaying an
estimated market increase for public PaaS and SaaS of 400% by
2020 and around 700% by 2026 from a $12bn current market.
iEx.ec team will identify the areas where its distributed Cloud
market network can best compete with existing Cloud
infrastructure providers and focus its efforts there.
iEx.ec’s speed to market due to a comprehensive existing
technological foundation will afford us first mover advantage,
positioning iEx.ec as the go-to computing provider for the killer
distributed applications of the future.

Page 10 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

6.3 eFast Business use case
Based on the typical distributed application requirement, we have prepared a business use-case for a
service that improves financial trading based on sophisticated computational methods that require HPC
for their execution - eFast.
eFast is an application created with the goal of helping small investors improve their trading decisions
via different services - like clusterization of stocks based on sophisticated computational methods. The
computational complexity requires high performance computing (HPC) for the execution - until now,
available only to large financial institutions. By using the iEx.ec distributed Cloud as a virtual
supercomputer, eFast will be able to offer its clients a budget friendly and secure service to improve
their investment decisions.
Each new service developed in eFast will be sold directly on the blockchain, similarly to the Softwareas-a-Service approach from traditional Cloud. eFast customers will use dedicated smart contracts,
which define the eFast functionalities and usage rights within iEx.ec.
An important feature of iEx.ec is the interconnection between applications, services, data and
computing resources. In this use case, eFast is using data and computing resource providers
available via blockchain technologies.

Data providers
Data is an important source of business, technical and scientific innovation. This has driven the
emergence of a blockchain-based data market with companies like Ledgys and Kaiko.com - an archive
of cryptocurrency stock exchange data. iEx.ec will enable eFast, the application provider, to connect to
the data provider Kaiko.com, enabling eFast to run based on a specific user-defined portfolio.

Computing resource providers
Any computing resource provider will be able to provide its computing resources on the iEx.ec
blockchain. This could include traditional Cloud service providers like Amazon AWS or Microsoft Azure,
decentralized Cloud service providers like Qarnot Computing or Stimergy or blockchain mining
companies like Genesis Mining which are always looking to optimize their resource profitability - for
example, running HPC computation in conjunction with mining Ethereum blocks.

Page 11 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

iEx.ec customer selects eFast as the application provider, Kaiko as the data provider and Stimergy as
the resource provider. Their application, data, and resource are represented as smart contracts
deployed on the blockchain, embedding their terms of use.

6.4 Competitive landscape
We restrict our review of the competitive landscape to the blockchain related activities, in particular to
projects offering: off-chain computations, data hosting, and computing resources.
Several projects allows for executing computation on untrusted resources, like Enigma or Truebit. While
these projects are interesting from a research point of view, they often rely on solutions that severely
limit their applicability (like Multi-Party Computation for Enigma). In contrast, Proof-of-Contribution
allows to integrate any legacy applications or libraries.
iEx.ec doesn’t compete with blockchain-based online storage solution like StorJ, Filecoin or Sia. Instead,
iEx.ec allows the monetization of data sets usage, i.e. data access for a particular application execution.
Oraclize acts as an intermediary between the smart contract and the source of data providing the
guaranty that no-one else can push a wrong data within the smart contract. These are complementary
technologies, with which synergies can be found.
There exists few projects that offer computing resources through the blockchain. Gridcoin creates a
cryptocurrency based on the computations provided to Boinc-based volunteer projects, thus it is mainly
limited to altruistic contributions for scientific projects. Golem and iEx.ec share the same vision of a new
Internet infrastructure enabled by the blockchain. However, their go-to-market strategies differ. Golem
aims at first assembling a virtual “supercomputer” to attract regular HPC users to their platform, while
iEx.ec first focuses on supporting DApps to build a distributed Cloud that eventually will be competitive
enough to attract Cloud and HPC users.
Besides, iEx.ec has the following advantages compared with existing and future challengers:
● Reduced time-to-market as iEx.ec is backed by mature technologies
● Enterprise oriented features
● Proof-of-contribution incentives for network growth and optimal usage of the platform
● Revenue model at each version of the development roadmap

Page 12 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

7. iEx.ec technology overview (Product)
iEx.ec is a combination of Desktop Grid Computing and Blockchain technologies.

7.1 Background: Desktop Grid Computing
Desktop Grid (i.e. Volunteer Computing) uses the underutilized computing resources to execute very
large parallel applications at the fraction of the cost of a traditional supercomputer. Some examples
include well-known applications like SETI@Home, Folding@home, and distributed.net.
Desktop Grid Computing includes several features that makes it a good platform for a fully Distributed
Cloud:
● resilience: if some nodes fail, the computation continues on other working nodes.
● efficiency: applications get excellent performances even if computing nodes are highly
heterogeneous.
● ease of deployment: allows to use any nodes without specific configuration, even those
located on the edge of the Internet.
This makes Desktop Grid the perfect solution for assembling hybrid infrastructures, whose computing
resources can range from classical high performance computing clusters, Cloud infrastructure providers
and home personal computers.

Building Distributed Cloud
Parallel computing
N-faults resilience

Large Scale Data
Management

BitDew

MPICH-V
2000

SpeQuloS

2003
2001

XtremWeb
1st Internet P2P Global
Computing Platform
Bag-of Task Application
Multi-users & multiapplications

QoS for Best-effort
infrastructure

2010
2012

2008

XtremWeb-HEP
Grid & Cloud
Highly secure
Virtualization
Hybrid public/private
Infrastructure

MapReduce
Big Data
1st Implementation of
MapReduce for
Internet Computing

Tens of users/applications: Finance, HEP, biomedical
research…
>1M€ EU FP7, ANR funding, ≈100 papers published
iEx.ec relies on Desktop Grid open-source software that we have been developed at the CNRS and
INRIA research institutes to assemble loosely distributed computing resources for HPC and Big Data.

Page 13 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

XtremWeb-HEP (link, GitHub) is a mature, solid, and open-source Desktop Grid software that
allows to use any kind of computing resources for executing compute-intensive or data-intensive
applications.
During the last decade, we have also developed a large portfolio of technologies for distributed
computing: MPICH-V for parallel computing, BitDew for large scale data management, SpeQuloS for
providing quality of service to application execution, the first implementation of MapReduce for Internet
computing, and more. Many of our research results have been published in top scientific conferences
and journals (>80 papers published) and we successfully raised more than 1M€ of public funding
including several EU research grants.
We have obtained a unique expertise in making the Desktop Grid technology running and available to
various scientific communities as well as startups and innovative industries.
● From 2007 to 2012, with several European partners, we established the European Desktop
Grid Infrastructure (EDGI). This considerable effort was supported by the European Union,
which funded 4 FP7 projects (EDGeS, EDGI, DEGISCO, IDGF). The goal was to provide
researchers and academics with additional computing power coming from Desktop Grid
infrastructures. EDGI has been a huge success. We connected a dozen of sites (Hungary,
France, UK, Spain, Netherlands …) to the main European e-infrastructures, such as the one
supporting the Large Hadron Collider in Switzerland. We gained a considerable experience in
connecting Clouds and HPC systems to Desktop Grids as we succeeded in transparently
executing millions of jobs on more than 200.000 nodes.
● By showing the applicability of the technology in many fields of science: high energy physics,
biomedical research, mathematics, financial algorithms, material research, 3-D rendering, and
more.
● Of course, we had also many collaborations with the industry (Total, Airbus, IFP …). And more
recently, we received a funding from the French National Research Industry in order to provide
innovative SMEs access to low-cost, on-demand and secure HPC services. We conducted
many interviews with SMEs from the biomedical and eHealth sector to understand their needs
and requirements and designed MVPs and PoCs. Somehow, the emergence of blockchain was
the key enabler that triggered our motivation that eventually led to the iEx.ec project.
The knowledge and experience gained by exploring, inventing and establishing Internet-wide distributed
computing infrastructures is a crucial part in creating a distributed Cloud for blockchain-based
distributed applications, while the foundation of already developed technology guarantees a fast
time to market and timely project completion.

7.2 iEx.ec Infrastructure Sidechain
iEx.ec relies on the blockchain to coordinate the access of computing resources to distributed
applications. This approach led to several innovations with respect to classical blockchain technologies
- in particular, the Proof-of-Contribution consensus protocol and a domain-specific blockchain.

Proof-of-Contribution
Traditional blockchain such as Bitcoin or Ethereum relies on the Proof-of-Work protocol, which ensures
that token transactions that happen on the blockchain between participants are validated by a large
number of nodes using cryptographic challenges. With iEx.ec, a Contribution, i.e. some actions that
happen out of the blockchain (like providing a data set, transferring a file, performing a computation,
giving a human expertise) will lead to token transactions between participants. That means that a new

Page 14 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

protocol is needed to prove the fact that contribution actually happened correctly and that the
corresponding token transactions can take place in the blockchain. We call this kind of consensus
protocol Proof-of-Contribution. There are several similar protocols [Filecoin, Gridcoin, Fatcom], which
allow building of a consensus between the blockchain and off-chain resources. For example, Gridcoin
proposed the Proof-of-Research protocol to reward the volunteers who donated part of their computer
time to a great scientific computation [BOINC] such as biomedical research (Folding@Home). Proofof-Contribution is designed to be a more universal framework, allowing to validate a greater number of
actions.
Special attention must be paid to validation of contributions as some malicious users could fake the
contributions to claim illegitimate rewards. To prevent this iEx.ec will rely on a decentralized network of
trusted nodes built using a reputation mechanism [Araujo] and Proof-of-Stake [Peercoin] protocol, and
a 14-days transaction backward mutability window [Gridcoin] with contribution certification and spotchecking [Sarmenta] to gradually build this network of trusted nodes.

Domain Specific Blockchain
Ethereum allows for code to be executed on the blockchain using smart contracts - a great advance for
blockchain technology. However, the DAO attack [HackDistrib] has shown that dealing with smart
contracts is a complex issue, especially when everyone is allowed to deploy them. To prevent potential
security issues iEx.ec will follow a more restrictive approach: a Domain Specific Blockchain.
Domain Specific Blockchain also means that we will adapt the blockchain to meet the requirement of
distributed infrastructure management. There might be the case where transactions would arrive “en
masse” (i.e. tasks submissions) or case where low latency (communication/ acknowledgement) is
required. In this case, relying on sidechain with specific capabilities can allow to process these events.

iEx.ec smart contract: Matchmaking
A Matchmaking algorithm [Matchmaking] is used in distributed systems to pair a resource request with
a resource offer according to their description. When designing a distributed Cloud, the Matchmaking
algorithm is an essential building block in resource provisioning. It basically answers the question: can
I run this task on this machine? We envision the iEx.ec blockchain to store smart contracts describing
the computing resources characteristics, such as for example amount of RAM, CPU type, disk space.
That means that some contracts will describe the requirements for running a task or deploying a VM
instance (minimum amount of disk space, RAM, GPU runtime requirement, expected hypervisor etc.).
A Matchmaking contract will do the pairing, possibly implementing different kind of policies.
Several Matchmaking description languages have been described in scientific articles and implemented
in software. iEx.ec team plans to design and adapt a simplified version of the well-known and tested
ClassAd [ClassAds] that powers the CondorHTC distributed system, developed at the University of
Wisconsin.

iEx.ec smart contract: Multi-criteria scheduling
In distributed systems, a scheduling algorithm distributes a set of tasks to execute on a set of computing
resources. The scheduler is a key component of any distributed computing systems, as the performance
of the application execution mainly depends of its effectiveness. In particular, a challenge is to design
multi-criteria scheduler, i.e. an algorithm that has several strategies to select the computing resources
and schedule the tasks. For instance, one customer may want to minimize the price even if the
computation takes a longer time, while another customer may want the best performances even at a
higher cost. iEx.ec team has developed an advanced multicriteria scheduler [MulticritSched], which

Page 15 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

allows customer to define their own preferences based on criteria such cost, performance, trust,
reliability, energy efficiency etc. iEx.ec will adopt a simplified version of this scheduler.

A Market management framework
There is still no Ethereum framework to manage a market, allowing the users to put offers and demands
to be stored and updated dynamically. iEx.ec will develop a simple API to register bids and a set of
template contracts to easily deploy customized markets. iEx.ec will also provide web user interface and
the JavaScript code that allows interacting with the contracts and easily placing orders.

Result checking on the blockchain
Result checking is a process that verifies that a result has been correctly computed by an untrusted
node [Sarmenta], and there exist several approaches to implementing it. However, existing methods
(replication and voting, spot checking, reputation etc.) have been designed with the assumption that the
computation were done for free (ignoring the economic perspective). iEx.ec will develop a new result
checking algorithm that leverages the blockchain and the smart contract features. By this approach,
users will be able to choose business partners from the market based on their provable reputation and
on the established budget.
This will enable for example escrow mechanisms, where payment for the execution will be deferred
until the result has been certified. This mechanism can also be coupled with a reputation system that is
stored on the blockchain and enables the platform to run redundant computation only for the less trusted
nodes, greatly reducing the required resources and price of computing.

Verified File Transfer
It is likely that commercial content distribution will be one of the biggest functions of the distributed
applications using the iEx.ec blockchain. This would for example mean customers paying for high value
data sets (like genetic or financial data) using smart contracts that would give them access to data.
iEx.ec will guarantee that content provider was actually able to provide the file, and that the file has been
actually downloaded before processing the payment, protecting the data recipient. iEx.ec also protects
data providers against malicious downloaders, who could pretend that the file transfer didn't succeed in
order to reclaim the payment.

Governance
Because iEx.ec will only authorize signed smart contracts to be deployed on the blockchain, a form of
governance is necessary to consider - like peer-review, and sometimes revoke the smart contracts. A
smart contract should include:
1. A proposition describing the contract, written similarly to RFC standards and
2. The code of the smart contract associated with the description.
Eventually, a distributed standardization body will collaboratively evaluate and elaborate the smart
contract propositions.

7.3 Proof-of-concepts
To demonstrate the potential of the platform and to show its technical feasibility we have prepared
several Proof-of-concepts, based on our already developed technology.

Page 16 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

Applications
There are many commercial and research distributed applications well suited for running on the iEx.ec
platform, this not only providing lower cost but also highly scalable performance. Here are just a few
examples that have been integrated in the PoC platform and that can immediately be used:
●
●
●
●
●
●

Video transcoding: Ffmpeg, a complete, cross-platform solution to record, convert and stream
audio and video.
Physics Simulation: Guineapigpp, simulation of beam-beam interactions in high energy e+ecolliders.
Digital signal processing (DSP): University of Westminster.
Physics Computation (ISDEP): Fusion, solving the dynamics of fusion plasma.
Audio Analysis: Dart, a framework for Distributed Audio Analysis and Music Information
Retrieval.
Optimization Algorithms: BNBSS, different type of deterministic and heuristic optimization
algorithms for solving global optimization problems.

Blockchain-based Cloud Computing
Announced at Devcon2, iEx.ec, INRIA and the Stimergy startup in France have collaborated on the
provisioning of a distributed data-center through a smart contract deployed on the Ethereum blockchain.

Off-chain computations
In November 2016, within the Supercomputing Conference (Salt Lake City), we have demoed how offchain computations can easily be made thanks to iEx.ec. It only takes minutes to insert an application
in the iEx.ec application repository. Then end-users can interact with their applications using the
Metamask front-end - like executing the application, by sending a transaction to its corresponding smart
contract. After the execution of the application, the result is available directly on the blockchain.

High scalability
In order to evaluate the scalability of the solution, we have conducted preliminary performance
evaluation using the Grid5000 research infrastructure in France. Our results are very encouraging, as
iEx.ec shows excellent performances for a single worker pool that contains up to 3.000 nodes and using
the DSP applications. Of course, being a distributed Cloud, anyone will be able to deploy its own iEx.ec
pool.

Page 17 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

7.4 iEx.ec Roadmap
To achieve our goals we developed the following implementation roadmap according to several funding
levels.

Go-to-market strategy
We will develop 5 versions of the product (v1-v5) that correspond to 3 steps in terms of Go-to-Market
strategy.

1. Community Edition (v1)
Features to create an open-source software that allows to build the distributed Cloud.

2. Enterprise Edition (v2, v3, v4)
Features to establish a full Market Network profitable for a wide range of businesses.

3. Research Edition (v5)
Features to make serious advances that can address wider topics than Cloud computing (IoT,
Fog/ Edge computing …).

With the minimum funding (2,000 BTC), iEx.ec will deliver an initial market network that allows to
monetize applications and servers. With a maximum funding (10,000 BTC), iEx.ec will gradually
develop the market network including data providers and HPC applications, then establish recurrent
sources of revenue to iEx.ec.

Page 18 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

v1 Essential (Community Edition)
The Essential version aims to provide DApps running on the Ethereum blockchain an access to offchain computing resources. This is an essential step in blockchain computing as it allows a broader
range of applications to run on the blockchain. At the moment, the gas mechanism provided by the
Ethereum blockchain makes the execution of algorithms with computation and/ or memory
requirements rapidly cost and performance prohibitive. Thanks to the Essential version of iEx.ec, DApps
will have a simple, secure, and practical way to reach off-chain computing resources to execute their
applications.
To this end, the Essential version will provide a smart contract API for Task execution. In our Proof-ofconcept, we have already bridged Ethereum with the XtremWeb-HEP Desktop Grid middleware. The
bridge monitors the Task smart contract, and when a transaction is detected, it triggers the computation
on off-chain computing resources. When the computation is over, the result is sent back to the smart
contract. To avoid a part of the security risks, the infrastructure will only include trusted computing
resources. Also, in this version no resource payment scheme will be considered yet.
The Essential version will target an initial number of DApps early adopters. iEx.ec will provide a set of
scientific applications (see section 7.3), and will provide support for early adopters that want to deploy
their applications on iEx.ec.

Page 19 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

v2 Market Network (Enterprise Edition)
In this version we build the Market Network, firstly addressing the Application providers and Server
providers. We introduce a Pay-per-Task scheme that allows the payment from the Task smart contract
to the Application and the Server providers. iEx.ec users can access the Market Network to launch
compute intensive applications in different ways, like: an API, a GUI and a CLI. Application providers
can decide on a payment scheme through a smart contract API.
This version will target the classic compute intensive open-source applications with a very large user
base - particularly 3D rendering (like Blender, Luxrender), biomedical research (like Blast, Autodock),
mathematics (R) and finance for which we already have significant experience. With respect to Server
providers, the focus will be on establishing partnerships with infrastructure providers, such as smaller
Cloud providers, individuals and miners interested in renting their server farms, mining rigs or home
servers.
Through its Pay-per-Task scheme, this version opens the first revenue stream through agreements with
the approved resource providers. This is the very beginning of doing business between providers by
monetizing their resources. The usage of the iEx.ec computing service will expand, making the business
within the Network Market to grow.

Page 20 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

v3 Hybrid Public-Private Infrastructure (Enterprise Edition)
This version includes key features for the enterprises to widely adopt the iEx.ec market network by
providing them with full control over the private/ public employment of their resources.
To be well grounded in the needs of industry, in 2014 we designed an MVP (Minimum Viable Product),
interviewing 20 startup companies from the Lyon Biopole healthcare innovation competitiveness cluster
to understand how they would interact with a distributed Cloud. Thanks to this study we identified three
mandatory requirements:
1. Data must be treated with at least the same importance as computations,
2. A clear distinction between public/ private access of resources. For example, a private
resource can only be accessed by the proprietary company or by a restricted set of trusted
partners. Conversely, a public resource can be handled by any hosts.
3. Have a clear vision of cost vs. performance when provisioning computing resources.
At a first glance, designing a system which provides these three features is challenging on fully
decentralized infrastructures. Fortunately, we already have strong research results and practical
experience in each of these three areas.
This version will target Data providers, allowing them to join the Market Network. Moreover, a broader
range of enterprises will be able to start shipping their applications and DApps through iEx.ec. With this
version, the market network will allow several direct connections between different resource providers.
This version strengthens the revenue stream of iEx.ec by allowing new revenue models conceived for
DApps requiring a higher level of trust and quality-of-service. These applications will benefit from
dedicated environments using selected resource providers, as well as specific QoS features through a
performant SLA.

Page 21 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

v4 High Performance Computing (Enterprise Edition)
This version allows miners to join the iEx.ec market network as Server providers, and provide their
customers with true supercomputing capabilities.
At the moment, the mining farms monetize their GPU resources by computing blockchain consensus.
Through iEx.ec, these providers will gain access to a new market of blockchain-based HPC applications.
By this, the providers will be offered the opportunity to better exploit their vast amount of computing
power and extend their businesses.
For instance, Genesis Mining operates the largest Ethereum mining farms, which are composed of tens
of thousands GPU cards, all together representing a considerable computing power (>15 PetaFlops).
For the first time at the Supercomputing Conference (SC16), along with key actors of the domain (JenHsun Huang, CEO of nVIDIA and Marco Streng, CEO of Genesis Mining), we initiated clear synergies
between HPC and blockchain computing. This iEx.ec version will provide all the technology building
blocks to make this happen.
In addition to miners, the iEx.ec HPC version will extend the Application providers pool to GPU-based
applications. These applications address deep learning, 3D rendering, computational fluid dynamics,
molecular dynamics, finance, and many more. We’ll put a focus on Deep Learning applications because
of its incredible fast growing usage, and because actors are already keen on using GPU Cloud
computing for that.
This version aims to extend the previously existing revenue models based on the integration of
advanced enterprise features that bring higher value to providers.

Page 22 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

v5 Beyond the Distributed Cloud (Research Edition)
The goal of this edition is to allow new usage of iEx.ec beyond the Distributed Cloud. This will be a clear
step further in Blockchain computing, as DApps will be fully autonomous applications, able to provision
resources, data, and applications directly from the blockchain in a fully decentralized way. To this end,
it’s necessary to integrate several software and protocols that are emerging now, or that may be
developed during course of the project, like devp2p, swarm, uport etc. Combined with a full development
of the Proof-of-Contribution, this will open new areas in the field of serverless services, directly hosted
on the blockchain. It will also be necessary to design new consensus protocols able to handle the iEx.ec
workload. We plan to lead those researches in partnership with recognised research labs in Europe and
in China.
This will open the Market Network to new applications specifically deployed on iEx.ec to take advantage
of the distributed Cloud: IoT, Fog/ Edge computing, Smart City. For instance, a recent study shows that
telecom companies (AT&T, Verizon, Huawei, Orange ...) can halve their infrastructure costs by
distributing small data-centers along their network point-of-presence. iEx.ec will be the building block
for such approaches.
As the platform increases in complexity, iEx.ec will provide advanced method for deploying iEx.ec ready
DApps, making it the “Heroku/ Dockker for blockchain computing”. Thus, new revenue stream will be
gained by offering a hassle free deployment and development platform on top of the Market Network.

Page 23 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

8. Financials
Revenues
The revenues will come from different sources:
● Partnership with resource providers (v2) and application providers (v4)
● Providing a private mode for applications/ data/ servers (v3)
● Providing advanced services for DApps (v5)

Costs
The funding is planned to cover development and operational costs for four years. There will be three
main sections of operation: development and maintenance of the iEx.ec platform, marketing &
expansion of the iEx.ec market network and academic collaboration to support the most advanced
research program in this area.
The main cost categories are the following:
iEx.ec team. The largest part of the funding will be dedicated to establishing a world-class team (mainly
developers and admins). With the maximum financing, we’ll be able to hire 15 persons, up to four years.
Office and indirect costs includes costs of offices in both France and China, as well as other indirect,
employment-related costs.
Marketing and communication activities are mainly focused on building a network of application
providers, data providers and key computing infrastructure providers (Clouds, Miners). This includes
two people that will work dedicated with sales and marketing efforts, one towards the traditional industry
and one towards blockchain based companies.
Research program will be conducted in collaboration with the most recognized research institutes and
universities in Europe (INRIA, CNRS, ENS-Lyon, UPMC, University Paris XI) and China (Univ.
Tsinghua, Chinese Academy of Sciences). Complementary funding will be obtained through national
(ANR, NSFC) and European (H2020) research agencies.
Contractors Security audits will be commissioned to independent sub-contractors: Qirinus for platform
security and S3 Lab for incentives design
Contingency is 9% of the total budget. (5% for minimum financing).

Page 24 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

Page 25 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

9. Crowdfunding
The RLC tokens will be used to access the resources provided by the Market Network. It will be the
unique way of payment for Application providers, Server providers and Data providers.
Participation to the crowdfunding operation will appear on a dedicated web site
(http://crowdsale.iex.ec).

Conditions*:
















Starting date: April 12, 2017 -- 13:00 GMT
Ending date: May 12, 2017 -- 13:00 GMT
Minimum objective amount: 2,000 BTC
Maximum amount: 10,000 BTC
Max RLC total supply: 87,000,000 RLC
Max RLC sold by crowdsale: 60,000,000 RLC
Founders, team and early investors: 15,000,000 RLC (Max), 12,000,000 RLC (Min)
Bounties, R&D, developer and marketing: 6,000,000 RLC (Max), 1,700,000 RLC (Min)
Special contingency reserve: 6,000,000 RLC (Max), 1,700,000 RLC (Min)
Min objective RLC sold by crowdsale: 12,000,000 RLC
BTC payment without bonus: 5,000 RLC/BTC
ETH payment witout bonus: price according to the cyptocompare index ETHBTC EMA12
Special bonus: 20% for the first 10 days, 10% for the next 10 days
Terms and conditions URL: http://crowdsale.iex.ec/
White Paper URL: http://iex.ec/whitepaper

*All conditions can be changed before the crowdsale.

The http://crowdsale.iex.ec web site will allow to acquire RLC tokens.
 Crowdsale: The number of tokens to be sold during the main sale will be limited to 60,000,000
RLC, which corresponds to raising 10,000 BTC with a 20% bonus. The RLC price will gradually
increase during the sale, following this scheme:
o 20% for first 10 days period: 6,000 RLC/BTC
o 10% for second 10 days period: 5,500 RLC/BTC
o 0% for last 10 days period: 5,000 RLC/BTC
The RLC/ETH price rate will be computed using the EMA12 ETHBTC index by
cryptocompare and updated at each bonus period.

Page 26 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY



Founders, team and early investors: A minimum amount of 12,000,000 RLC (Min) will be
created, along with a variable part corresponding to 5% of the crowdsale, capped at 15,000,000
RLC (Max).
 Bounties: R&D, developer, marketing. A special purpose fund corresponding to 10% of the
crowdsale capped at 6,000,000 RLC (Max) will be provisioned for developers in the form of
bounty grants, marketing actions, research grants to ensure the growth of the network after the
initial development.
Special contingency reserve: iEx.ec will keep a reserve corresponding to 10% of the crowdsale,
capped at 6,000,000 RLC (Max), to ensure the security of the blockchain. Obviously, the reserve will
not be sold on the markets. Instead, the reserve can be used to recover from low-chance, unexpected
and extremely serious situation that could endanger the whole project.

Page 27 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

10. Team (full bio)
Founders
Gilles Fedak – Computer scientist, CEO
Dr. habil. Gilles FEDAK has been a permanent INRIA research scientist since 2004
at ENS-Lyon, France. After receiving his Ph.D degree from University Paris Sud in
2003, he followed a postdoctoral fellowship at University California San Diego in
2003-2004. His research interests are in Parallel and Distributed Computing, with
a particular emphasis on the problematic of using large and loosely coupled
distributed computing infrastructures to support highly demanding computational
and data-intensive Science. He produced pioneering software and algorithms in
the field of Grid and Cloud Computing that allow people to easily harness large parallel systems
consisting of thousands of machines distributed on the Internet (XtremWeb, MPICH-V, BitDew,
SpeQulos, Xtrem-MapReduce, Active Data …). He co-authored about 80 peer-reviewed scientific
papers and won two Best Paper awards. In 2012, G. Fedak co-edits with C. Cérin the Desktop Grid
Computing Book, (CRC publication). In 2015, he receives the Chinese Academy of Sciences PIFI
Award.

Haiwu He – Chief Scientist
Pr. Haiwu HE is a 100 Talent Professor at the CNIC (Computer Network
Information Center), Chinese Academy of Sciences in Beijing. He is a Chunhui
Scholar of Ministry of Education of China since 2013. Prof. Haiwu HE received his
M. Sc. and Ph. D. degrees in computing from the University of Sciences and
Technologies of Lille, France, respectively in 2002 and 2005. He was a
postdoctoral researcher at Inria Saclay, France in 2007. He was a research
engineer expert at Inria Rhone-Alpes in Lyon, France from 2008 to 2014. He has published about 30
refereed journal and conference papers. His research interest covers P2P distributed system, Cloud
computing, BigData.

Inventors
Oleg Lodygensky – Technical Leader
Dr. Oleg LODYGENSKY is a CNRS senior research engineer at LAL/CNRS,
located at Paris XI, France. Oleg is the main developer of XtremWeb-HEP, the
open-source software for Desktop Grid computing used in production at Institute
for Nuclear and Particle Physics. He introduced many concepts and technical
innovations to XtremWeb-HEP, including virtualization, bridging with Grid
infrastructure, volunteer Cloud, data-driven Desktop Grid, security in
trusted/untrusted environment, user/application/data right management, etc. Oleg Lodygensky has
been graduated PhD from University Paris XI.

Page 28 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

Mircea Moca – Business Developer, Fintech expert
Dr. Mircea Moca is Associated Professor at the Babeș-Bolyai University,
România, where he received his Ph.D. in 2010. He followed a doctoral internship
in 2010 and a postdoctoral internship in 2012 at INRIA, ENS-Lyon France. His
research interests are in distributed computing, MapReduce and recently in
cryptocurrency and blockchain technologies. He participated at the development
and validation of the MapReduce implementation for Volunteer Computing
environments. He developed an innovative user-satisfaction and multi-criteria
scheduler for hybrid distributed computing infrastructures. In the recent years he acquired expertise in
IT project management. He currently leads the initiative of building and validating eFAST, a distributed
platform for providing advanced decision support services for small investors on the financial markets.

Core Developers
Mehdi Amari (Blockchain Developer)
After practicing coding at Ecole 42 in Paris, Mehdi specialized himself in Blockchain
system architecture. Then, he has led the development of several Proof of
Concepts for large companies in Lajavaness, a French digital innovation
accelerator. He is also actively involved in the development of the Blockchain
ecosystem.

Hamid Ben (Blockchain Expert)
Abdelhamid Benyahia is a digital strategist and Blockchain expert at La Javaness.
After having built his own startup and helping entrepreneurs realise their own
cutting-edge projects, he now works on applying Blockchain to use cases, doing
POCs (Proof of Concepts), and strategic analysis for both big corporate companies
and startups.

José Francisco Saray (Data Management Expert)
Jose Francisco Sary is a Data management expert in the team. After having
finished his Master’s degree in University of Lyon, he now works on applying data
management to use cases, and Bigdata analysis for the institutes and enterprises.

Page 29 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

Heithem Abbes (Energy Positive Server)
Heithem Habbes is an Assistant Professor in Computer Science at the FST
(Faculté des sciences de Tunis) and a member of the LaTICE research
laboratory. His research involves distributed systems, particularly grid and Cloud
systems. He is working on Green computing as well for Energy positive
equipements. For this project, Heithem will develop the Energy Positive Server
that will allow to execute micro-services at a very low cost.

Communication & Public Relation
Julien Bérenger (Communication & Content)
Julien Béranger is in charge of the communication and content. He graduated
in Chinese Studies at the French National Institute of Oriental Languages and
Civilizations and taught Chinese language for five years. He discovered Bitcoin
and blockchain techs in April 2013 and worked as a Community Outreach
Officer for an iOS payment app and a community currency. In June 2014, he
joined OpenClassrooms marketing team, the leading e-learning platform in
Europe. He wrote various articles about smart contracts’ design (Bitcoin.fr and
Ethereum France). He’s also co-founder of Abie Fund, a nonprofit DAO project.

Agnès Fedak (Press, Video & Community Manager)
Agnès Fedak is involved in the promotion of iEx.ec on social networks. Agnès is
a video artist, independent editor, video installation designer, documentary and
scientific filmmaker, cultural and artistic mediator, trainer. Works and creates in
Brussels and Geneva.

Page 30 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

Acknowledgement
We thank Vincent Eli for his help on the incentives design of the Proof-of-Contribution.

Page 31 of 31
THE IEXEC BLOCKCHAIN COMPANY

References
[BitDew] Fedak, G., He, H., & Cappello, F. (2008, November). BitDew: a programmable environment for largescale data management and distribution. In IEEE International Conference for High Performance Computing,
Networking, Storage and Analysis. SC 2008 (pp. 1-12).
[BOINC] ANDERSON, David P. Boinc: A system for public-resource computing and storage. In: Grid Computing,
2004. Proceedings. Fifth IEEE/ACM International Workshop on. IEEE, 2004. (pp. 4-10).
[BLAST] He, H., Fedak, G., Tang, B., & Cappello, F. (2009, May). BLAST application with data-aware desktop grid
middleware. In Proceedings of the 2009 9th IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster Computing and the
Grid (pp. 284-291). IEEE Computer Society.
[Cisco] D. Evans, “The internet of things: How the next evolution of the internet is changing everything,” CISCO
white paper, vol. 1, pp. 14, 2011.
[ClassAds] Solomon, M. (2003). The ClassAd Language Reference Manual, Version 2.1. Computer Sciences
Department, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, USA.
[CYCLONE] Adrien Lebre, Anthony Simonet, Anne-Cecile Orgerie. Deploying Distributed Cloud Infrastructures:
Who and at What Cost? Intercloud 2016, Apr 2016, Berlin, Germany. Proceedings of the fth IEEE International
Workshop on Cloud Computing Interclouds, Multiclouds, Federations, and Interoperability, 2016,
http://www.cyclone-project.eu/intercloud2016.html
[Fatcom] Factom - A Scalable Data Layer for the Blockchain http://fatcom.org
[FogComputing] https://www.cisco.com/c/dam/en_us/solutions/trends/iot/docs/computing-overview.pdf
[GridCoin] http://gridcoin.us
[HackDistrib] http://hackingdistributed.com/2016/06/18/analysis-of-the-dao-exploit/
[MatchMaking] Raman, R., Livny, M., & Solomon, M. (1998, July). Matchmaking: Distributed resource
management for high throughput computing. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM Seventh International Symposium
on High Performance Distributed Computing, HPDC 1998 (pp. 140-146).
[MulticritSched] Mircea Moca, Cristian Litan, Gheorghe Silaghi, Gilles Fedak (2016). Multi-criteria and
satisfaction oriented scheduling for hybrid distributed computing infrastructures. Future Generation Computer
Systems, 55, pp. 428-443.
[Sarmenta] Sarmenta, L. F. (2002). Sabotage-tolerance mechanisms for volunteer computing systems. Future
Generation Computer Systems, 18(4), 561-572.
[XtremWeb] Fedak, G., Germain, C., Neri, V., & Cappello, F. (2001). Xtremweb: A generic global computing
system. In Proceedings. First IEEE/ACM International Symposium on Cluster Computing and the Grid, 2001. (pp.
582-587), IEEE.
[XtremWeb-HEP] A Data Driven Volunteer Cloud Middleware, https://xtremweb-hep.lal.in2p3.fr

