KyberNetwork
A​ ​trustless​ ​decentralized​ ​exchange​ ​and​ ​payment​ ​service
Loi​ ​Luu​ ​,​ ​Yaron​ ​Velner
[loiluu,​ ​yaron]@kyber.network
(v0.8,​ ​updated​ ​on​ ​27​ ​August,​ ​2017)

Abstract. ​We design and build KyberNetwork, an on-chain protocol which allows instant

exchange and conversion of digital assets (e.g. crypto tokens) and cryptocurrencies (e.g. Ether,
Bitcoin, ZCash) with high liquidity. KyberNetwork will be the first system that implements several
ideal operating properties of an exchange including trustless, decentralized execution, instant
trade and high liquidity. Besides serving as an exchange, KyberNetwork also provides payment
APIs that will allow Ethereum accounts to easily receive payments from any crypto tokens. As
an example, any merchant can now use KyberNetwork APIs to allow users to pay in any crypto
tokens,​ ​but​ ​the​ ​merchant​ ​will​ ​receive​ ​payments​ ​in​ ​Ether​ ​(ETH)​ ​or​ ​other​ ​preferred​ ​tokens.
Although running on the Ethereum network, KyberNetwork’s roadmap includes supporting
cross-chain trades between different cryptocurrencies using relays and future protocols like
Polkadot and Cosmos. Ethereum accounts will be able to safely receive payment from Bitcoin,
ZCash and other cryptocurrencies via our payment APIs, through this trustless payment service.
Derivatives will be introduced to mitigate the exposure to the risk of volatilities for the users of
KyberNetwork Crystals (KNC) and selected cryptocurrencies. This will allow users to participate
in​ ​the​ ​price​ ​movements​ ​synthetically.

1

Table​ ​of​ ​contents
1.​ ​Introduction

1.1.​ ​Motivation

1.1.1.​ ​Risk​ ​of​ ​centralization

1.1.2.​ ​Lack​ ​of​ ​instant​ ​exchanges

1.1.3.​ ​Problem​ ​of​ ​existing​ ​decentralized​ ​exchanges
1.1.4.​ ​The​ ​problem​ ​of​ ​having​ ​many​ ​digital​ ​assets

1.2.​ ​The​ ​KyberNetwork
2.​ ​KyberNetwork’s​ ​Design

2.1.​ ​Actors​ ​in​ ​the​ ​KyberNetwork
2.2.​ ​Dynamic​ ​Reserve​ ​Pool

2.3.​ ​Main​ ​System​ ​Components
2.4.​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​APIs
2.4.1.​ ​User​ ​API

2.4.2.​ ​Reserve​ ​Contributor​ ​API
2.4.3.​ ​Reserve​ ​Manager​ ​API

2.4.4.​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​Operator​ ​API

2.5.​ ​Support​ ​trustless​ ​trading​ ​cross-chain
3.​ ​System​ ​Properties

3.1.​ ​Trustless​ ​and​ ​secure
3.2.​ ​Instant​ ​trade

3.3.​ ​On-chain​ ​exchange
3.4.​ ​Compatibility

3.5.​ ​Comparison​ ​to​ ​existing​ ​systems
4.​ ​Applications

4.1.​ ​Instant​ ​and​ ​secure​ ​exchange

4.2.​ ​Generic​ ​payment​ ​APIs​ ​with​ ​any​ ​token

4.3.​ ​Trusted​ ​on-chain​ ​source​ ​for​ ​rate​ ​quotes
4.4.​ ​Mitigate​ ​the​ ​risks​ ​of​ ​price​ ​fluctuations
4.5.​ ​Forwards
4.6.​ ​Options
5.​ ​Road​ ​map

5.1.​ ​Phase​ ​0:​ ​Testnet​ ​deployment

5.2.​ ​Phase​ ​1:​ ​Basic​ ​mainnet​ ​deployment

5.3.​ ​Phase​ ​2:​ ​Supporting​ ​arbitrary​ ​pairs​ ​of​ ​tokens

5.4.​ ​Phase​ ​3:​ ​Trading​ ​advanced​ ​financial​ ​instruments
5.5.​ ​Phase​ ​4:​ ​Support​ ​cross-chain​ ​trades

2

6.​ ​Crowdsale​ ​and​ ​the​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​Crystal
6.1.​ ​Use​ ​of​ ​tokens

7.​ ​Acknowledgement
8.​ ​The​ ​team

8.1.​ ​Core​ ​members
8.2.​ ​Advisors

3

1.​ ​Introduction

Emerging cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Ethereum and others have been gaining tractions of
late because they allow users to transact, manage their digital assets in a decentralized and
trustless model without relying on a third party. More interestingly, Ethereum network, with its
turing complete scripting language and trustless smart contracts, makes its easier for people to
issue and digitalize their own crypto tokens which either represents some real-world asset (e.g.
Digix Gold token) or has values in some platform (GolemNetwork token, Gnosis token, Augur
token and so on). To date, the total market capitalization of the most popular cryptocurrency
assets is 72 Billion USD1. This total market cap has tripled in the last 5 months and is still
growing.

1.1.​ ​Motivation
1.1.1.​ ​Risk​ ​of​ ​centralization

As the Blockchain market grows and more crypto assets are being introduced, the need to
convert and exchange between crypto tokens is ever increasing. The trade volume between, for
example, ETH and Bitcoin is worth hundreds of million of dollars per day on major exchanges.
The total trade volume between ETH and other crypto tokens on its network, most of which are
less than 2 years-old, is also in the order of millions of dollars. However, despite the
decentralized and trustless natures of cryptocurrencies and crypto tokens, most of the trades
happening on centralized exchanges are vulnerable to internal fraud and external hacking. This
is an ongoing concern and a number of hacking incidents has been reported at various
exchanges2​ ​affecting​ ​thousands​ ​of​ ​users​ ​and​ ​loss​ ​of​ ​hundreds​ ​of​ ​million​ ​of​ ​dollars.

1.1.2.​ ​Lack​ ​of​ ​instant​ ​exchanges

Existing exchanges, including centralized and decentralized ones, often require user to wait for
several​ ​minutes​ ​before​ ​allowing​ ​them​ ​to​ ​withdraw​ ​their​ ​funds.

1.1.3.​ ​Problem​ ​of​ ​existing​ ​decentralized​ ​exchanges

The quests to build decentralized exchanges have been initiated by several parties on the
Ethereum network3. Although these parties build decentralized and trustless exchanges, they
are still vulnerable to external manipulation since there is a delay when an order is created and
when​ ​it​ ​is​ ​accepted​ ​in​ ​a​ ​block​ ​(read​ ​more​ ​here​).
​ ​https://coinmarketcap.com/charts/
​ ​For​ ​example,​ M
​ tGox​,​ ​Bitfinex​,​ ​Shapeshift​.
3
​ ​See​ 0
​ xProject​,​ ​OasisIndex​​ ​and​​ ​EtherDelta​.
1
2

4

There are other possible reasons that existing decentralized exchanges are not as popular as
expected despite having better security features. These exchanges keep an orderbook of users
on the chain. As a result, adjustment or cancellation of bid orders can be expensive to regular
users. Repeated revisions of orders will compound the issues as the cost will escalate until a
match​ ​between​ ​buy​ ​and​ ​sell​ ​order​ ​is​ ​found.
Some exchanges4 hope to resolve this issue by making the price discovery and negotiation
process done offline via intermediate parties. A trade is done on-chain only after the two parties
have agreed on the rate. This raises the issues of trust in the role of the intermediate party in
finding the best counterparty for the trade. We also note that no-fees orders are susceptible to
adversarial​ ​sybil​ ​or​ ​denial-of-service​ ​attacks.

1.1.4.​ ​The​ ​problem​ ​of​ ​having​ ​many​ ​digital​ ​assets

As the number of ICOs increases, so does the introduction of new crypto tokens. It is logical to
assume that investors will acquire a variety of desired crypto tokens as part of their investment
strategy. The convertibility of one crypto token to another represents a new challenge for both
investors and operators alike. For example, it may be a challenge for any party to allow an
already​ ​deployed​ ​contract​ ​to​ ​accept​ ​new​ ​crypto​ ​tokens​ ​as​ ​a​ ​form​ ​of​ ​payment.
It also introduces more room for implementation bugs and security flaws. As an example,
recently, in the DAO Token ICO, there was ​a major bug that distributed more tokens to SNGLS
contributors than to ETH contributors, although they contributed the same amount. Thus, there
is a need to simplify the payment procedure for both token holders, merchants and users in the
network.

1.2.​ ​The​ ​KyberNetwork
We introduce KyberNetwork, an on-chain decentralized exchange providing several useful
applications, including building a practical exchange and providing payment APIs for merchants
and users to instantly convert tokens effortlessly and “trustlessly”. There is no orderbook. Users
will know the conversion rate before sending the transaction and receive the corresponding
amount. Users don’t pay any extra fees (other than the gas fees for the transaction).
KyberNetwork​ ​benefits​ ​through​ ​pricing​ ​a​ ​reasonable​ ​spread​ ​in​ ​the​ ​conversion​ ​rate.
Our users can also send their existing token A, by converting to a different type of token B and
sending it to another user, who only accepts payment in B all in one transaction. More
interestingly, KyberNetwork introduces a new standard contract wallet to allow existing
contracts, which only accepts few tokens, to receive payments from any future tokens without

4

​ ​Swap.tech​​ ​and​ ​0xproject

5

any modification to the contract code. This allows contracts or merchants to access to a wider
class​ ​of​ ​users,​ ​receives​ ​payments​ ​and​ ​contributions​ ​in​ ​any​ ​tokens​ ​that​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​supports.
KyberNetwork’s​ ​design​ ​has​ ​several​ ​novel​ ​constructions​ ​to​ ​support​ ​all​ ​these​ ​applications.
● Instead of maintaining a global order book, we maintain a reserve warehouse which
holds an appropriate amount of crypto tokens for purposes of maintaining exchange
liquidity. The reserve is directly controlled by the Kyber contract, and the contract has a
conversion rate for each exchange pair of tokens by fetching from all the reserves. The
rates are frequently updated by the reserve managers, and Kyber contract will select the
best rate for the users. When a request to convert from token A to token B arrives, the
Kyber contract checks if the correct amount of token A has been credited to the contract,
then sends the corresponding amount of token B to the sender’s specified address. The
amount​ ​of​ ​token​ ​A,​ ​after​ ​the​ ​fees,​ ​is​ ​credited​ ​to​ ​the​ ​reserve​ ​that​ ​provides​ ​the​ ​token​ ​B.
● We introduce a new standard contract wallet to enable some of our interesting
applications. Specifically, our new standard contract wallet allows the Kyber contract to
send a user’s newly converted tokens to his/ her destination address on the user’s
behalf. The destination address will receive the converted tokens as if the tokens were
sent​ ​from​ ​the​ ​sender,​ ​not​ ​the​ ​Kyber​ ​contract.
● Our long-term plan also includes employing future features of the EVM language to build
an efficient ZCash-Relay on Ethereum. A ZCash-Relay on Ethereum will allow us to
support cross-chain trades between ETH and ZEC. We also leverage future platforms
like​ ​Polkadot​ ​and​ ​Cosmos​ ​to​ ​enable​ ​more​ ​cross-chain​ ​trading​ ​and​ ​payments.
● The Kyber contract is designed with extensibility-focus which has well modularized
components. Specifically, we allow dynamically adding any new tokens or delisting
existing​ ​tokens.​ ​Thus,​ ​we​ ​are​ ​able​ ​to​ ​work​ ​with​ ​any​ ​tokens​ ​or​ ​digital​ ​assets​ ​in​ ​the​ ​future.

2.​ ​KyberNetwork’s​ ​Design
2.1.​ ​Actors​ ​in​ ​the​ ​KyberNetwork
There​ ​are​ ​5​ ​roles​ ​for​ ​the​ ​actors​ ​in​ ​the​ ​network:
1. Users who send and receive token5 to and from the network. Users in KyberNetwork
includes​ ​individual​ ​users,​ ​smart​ ​contract​ ​accounts​ ​and​ ​merchants.
2. A reserve entity(ies) provides liquidity to the platform. This can be our own reserve or
other third party reserves that are registered by other market makers. Reserves can also
be classified into public and private reserves which do and do not take contributions from
the​ ​public.
3. Reserve contributors who provide capital to the reserve entity and share the platform
profit. This actor only exists in public reserves which accept contributions from public to
build​ ​up​ ​the​ ​reserve.
5

​ ​For​ ​the​ ​rest​ ​of​ ​this​ ​paper​ ​a​ ​token​ ​also​ ​refers​ ​to​ ​the​ ​Ether​ ​currency.

6

4. Reserve manager who maintains the reserve, determines exchange rates and feeds the
rates​ ​to​ ​the​ ​KyberNetwork.
5. KyberNetwork operator who is responsible to add and remove reserve entities, list/delist
pairs of tokens in the network. Initially the Kyber team will act as the KyberNetwork
operators to bootstrap the platform in the early phases. Later on, a proper decentralized
governance​ ​will​ ​be​ ​set​ ​up​ ​to​ ​take​ ​over​ ​the​ ​task.
Each of the actors interacts with the smart contract independently in a different way. The users
send and receive tokens within a single transaction, without waiting for any response from the
reserve or the KyberNetwork operator. The KyberNetwork operator is responsible for adding
and removing reserves, while the reserve manager determines and feeds the exchange rates to
the contract for a fixed period (several seconds basis). The main contract relies on the reserve
entity​ ​to​ ​guarantee​ ​high​ ​liquidity.
The​ ​diagram​ ​below​ ​illustrates​ ​the​ ​interaction​ ​of​ ​each​ ​of​ ​the​ ​actors.

2.2.​ ​Dynamic​ ​Reserve​ ​Pool
KyberNetwork guarantees high liquidity by leveraging the existing reserves in the network.
Different reserves are directly managed by different reserve managers, which may and may not
be associated to KyberNetwork operator. KyberNetwork allows multiple reserves to co-exist to
enable better prices (by eliminating monopoly of reserve), guarantee better liquidity (by utilising
7

other sources). Furthermore, allowing different people, apart from KyberNetwork operator, to
manage their own reserves permits KyberNetwork to support low-trading-volume tokens by
off-loading the management efforts of those tokens to corresponding reserve managers. Thus,
different parties who wish to take the risk of trading/ converting low-trading-volume tokens can
create their own reserve of those tokens and register with KyberNetwork. Note that
KyberNetwork does not hold any funds of the reserves that register with it. Their funds are
stored​ ​on​ ​their​ ​reserve​ ​contracts​ ​which​ ​will​ ​follow​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​ground​ ​principles.
When a trade/ conversion request arrives, KyberNetwork will fetch the conversion rates from all
reserves that can process the request. KyberNetwork then selects the best rates and executes
the request. We guarantee that both the reserves and the users are safe, namely we do not
keep​ ​any​ ​party’s​ ​funds​ ​and​ ​all​ ​transactions​ ​are​ ​atomic.
We note that when we launch KyberNetwork, it is likely to have only a single reserve provided
by us in the network. This reserve will be the main source of liquidity for the system before other
reserves​ ​are​ ​registered.
Why other reserves should join KyberNetwork? ​KyberNetwork creates a platform for reserve
managers to monetize their otherwise idle assets. By serving trade requests from users,
reserves earn profit from the spread, which they can decide on their own. Of course the
reserves can always do the trading without joining KyberNetwork, however they will get higher
volume due to network effects in KyberNetwork. We will bring more users to KyberNetwork by
having​ ​collaborations​ ​with​ ​wallet​ ​providers​ ​and​ ​other​ ​token​ ​projects.
In addition, KyberNetwork also provides a reserve dashboard software to help reserve
managers manage their reserve portfolio. The reserve dashboard will include standard and
popular trading algorithms/ strategies to allow reserve managers to automatically make prices
and rebalance their portfolio. Our reserve dashboard is flexible enough that reserve managers
can​ ​always​ ​implement​ ​and​ ​deploy​ ​their​ ​own​ ​strategies​ ​when​ ​and​ ​where​ ​they​ ​see​ ​fit.
How to keep the reserves safe? ​The security of reserves becomes a major concern in
KyberNetwork, especially for public reserves that take contributions from other members in the
network. One of the primary concerns is that a bad/unethical reserve manager may quote and
trade​ ​bad​ ​prices​ ​to​ ​him/herself​ ​to​ ​drain​ ​all​ ​coins​ ​from​ ​the​ ​reserve.
Let us categorize the reserves into two types: (1) private reserves which do not accept
contributions and (2) ​public reserves which take external contributions and share profits with
contributors. Whilst still a valid concern, if reserve managers of private reserves follow good
security practices, the risk exposure of private reserves can be confined to an acceptable range,
especially since the reserves are handled locally and other parties cannot interfere without
permission. On the other hand, public reserves are subject to greater risk exposure due to its
open nature. To mitigate the security risks of public reserves, we will employ a transparent fund
management model, for example MelonFund (developed by MelonPort), so that contributors of
the reserve can track all trading activities done by reserve managers. On top of that, we also
plan to introduce restrictions to protect open reserves. For example, the funds of the reserves
8

can only be transferred to predefined addresses in the contracts, such as the reserve contract
itself, and other exchanges that the reserves interact with. Hence, the risk of unwarranted
extraction of funds out of the system is removed. Also, to prevent reserve managers from
deliberately setting up false and unreasonable exchange rates, e.g. one million Golem Network
Token (GNT) per Ether when the spot rate is only five hundred GNT to one Ether, just so that
the manager can buy GNTs at a cheap price, we employ both on-chain mechanisms (e.g.,
prevent unreasonable changes in price without special authorization) and by off-chain
mechanisms. For example, a background monitor that will halt transactions when the system
detects dubious activities that undermine the integrity of the network can watch and flag out
suspicious​ ​behaviours​ ​from​ ​any​ ​reserve​ ​manager​ ​in​ ​the​ ​network.

2.3.​ ​Main​ ​System​ ​Components
KyberNetwork​ ​consists​ ​of​ ​the​ ​following​ ​major​ ​components​ ​in​ ​its​ ​system.
● Smart contracts: KyberNetwork contains several contracts, including the main contract
which serves as the main entrance to the system for users and reserve managers. We
also have different contracts to maintain the reserves, and a contract wallet which
provides​ ​convenient​ ​interface​ ​to​ ​all​ ​features​ ​that​ ​Kyber​ ​supports.
● User’s wallet: Wallet apps with friendly interfaces to support users. Integrations with
existing wallet apps like Status, Token, Metamask and so on will help improve the
adoption​ ​of​ ​KyberNetwork.
● Reserve manager portal: aids the management of the reserve by displaying their
performance, network stats, supporting different strategies and algorithms to make
prices/ rebalance. Reserve managers interact with the network (or the Kyber contract)
via​ ​this​ ​portal.
● Operator dashboard: Helps KyberNetwork operator manage the entire system. Operator
can​ ​add​ ​and​ ​remove​ ​new​ ​reserves,​ ​change​ ​network​ ​parameters​ ​via​ ​this​ ​dashboard.
A minimum-viable-product has been released in August 2017. The readers can find more details
in​ ​our​ ​release​ ​blog​ ​post​ 6​ .

2.4.​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​APIs
KyberNetwork​ ​supports​ ​different​ ​API​ ​commands​ ​for​ ​users,​ ​reserve​ ​and​ ​reserve​ ​contributors.

2.4.1.​ ​User​ ​API

User​ ​API​ ​can​ ​be​ ​called​ ​by​ ​any​ ​Ethereum​ ​account,​ ​including​ ​normal​ ​account​ ​and​ ​contract​ ​ones.
Transfer(​ ​amount,​ ​source​ ​tokens,​ ​destination​ ​token​ ​name,​ ​destination​ ​address)
Transfer function converts ​amount of source tokens (token A) to destination tokens (token B)
and​ ​sends​ ​type​ ​B​ ​tokens​ ​to​ ​destination​ ​address.​ ​For​ ​example,​ ​users​ ​can​ ​call
6

​ ​https://blog.kyber.network/kybernetwork-mvp-release-e8440a79346f

9

​ ​Transfer(​ ​100,​ ​“DGD”,​ ​“Melon”,​ ​“0xb794f5ea0ba39494ce839613fffba74279579268”​)
to convert 100 DigixDao tokens to Melonport tokens and transfer all converted Melonport tokens
to​ ​“0xb794f5ea0ba39494ce839613fffba74279579268”.
GetExchangeRate(​ ​token​ ​A,​ ​token​ ​B)
Returns the conversion rate between token A and token B. In the future we can support different
exchange​ ​rates​ ​for​ ​different​ ​trade​ ​volumes.

2.4.2.​ ​Reserve​ ​Contributor​ ​API

Reserve Contributor APIs can be called by any account in the Ethereum network, though some
API only works if the account already contributed. There will be two different reserve types in
KyberNetwork: private ones which do not take public contributions and public ones which allow
others to contribute funds. The APIs for public reserves highly resemble ones from ​MelonFund
(decentralized​ ​hedge​ ​fund​ ​platform​ ​built​ ​by​ ​MelonPort).​ ​Here​ ​we​ ​list​ ​the​ ​main​ ​ones.
ContributeReserve(token​ ​type,​ ​amount)
Contribute some amount of tokens of a certain token type to the reserve. For every contribution,
the contributor will receive some amount of reserve tokens/ shares to represent their
contribution to the platform. We refer the readers to Melonport’s greenpaper for more technical
details.
WithdrawProfits()
Profits are distributed proportionally to the contributions of the contributors. The exact formula to
distribute​ ​the​ ​platform​ ​profits​ ​will​ ​depend​ ​on​ ​the​ ​implementation​ ​of​ ​the​ ​reserve.
WithdrawContribution(KNC​ ​amount,​ ​token​ ​type)
An existing contributor can withdraw their contribution from the reserve. The contributor can
specify in which token type that he wishes to receive for his withdrawn contribution, we do the
conversion​ ​in​ ​the​ ​background.

2.4.3.​ ​Reserve​ ​Manager​ ​API

SetRate(​ ​token​ ​A​ ​,​ ​token​ ​B,​ ​rate)
To set a conversion rate between an existing pair of token A and token B. In the real
deployment, this API will be replaced by a different API which updates the rates of all existing
pairs​ ​in​ ​one​ ​transaction.​ ​The​ ​purpose​ ​of​ ​batch-update​ ​is​ ​mainly​ ​to​ ​reduce​ ​the​ ​gas​ ​cost.

2.4.4.​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​Operator​ ​API
ListPair​ ​(token​ ​A,​ ​token​ ​B,​ ​initial​ ​rate)
To​ ​introduce​ ​a​ ​new​ ​pair​ ​of​ ​tokens​ ​that​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​supports.
10

DelistPair​ ​(token​ ​A,​ ​token​ ​B)
To​ ​stop​ ​accepting​ ​trade​ ​between​ ​a​ ​pair​ ​of​ ​tokens.
AddReserve​ ​(reserveAddress)
Add​ ​a​ ​new​ ​reserve​ ​to​ ​the​ ​network.​ ​The​ ​reserve​ ​is​ ​managed​ ​by​ ​its​ ​own​ ​manager.
RemoveReserve​ ​(reserveAddress)
Remove an existing reserve from KyberNetwork. The removal is due to low liquidity, bad price
and​ ​other​ ​reasons.

2.5.​ ​Support​ ​trustless​ ​trading​ ​cross-chain
Chain relays, e.g. BTCRlay, enables communication between different blockchains. The
launches of protocols like Polkadot and Cosmos will make cross-chain interactions even easier.
KyberNetwork will leverage these technologies to allow Ethereum accounts to receive payments
from​ ​different​ ​cryptocurrencies.

3.​ ​System​ ​Properties
3.1.​ ​Trustless​ ​and​ ​secure
The KyberNetwork operator does not hold the tokens of the users. Hence, by design, user’s
tokens are secured from theft losses. Users need not trust the intentions of the reserve entity
and the KNC token holders, as the integrity of the operator is enforced/ensured by the smart
contract.

3.2.​ ​Instant​ ​trade
An exchange or convert request is executed immediately within a single transaction. Users get
their exchanged token at the exact moment they transferred their original token. No deposit or
confirmation or waiting time is needed. This efficient and user friendly feature distinguishes
KyberNetwork​ ​from​ ​most​ ​other​ ​existing​ ​and​ ​future​ ​exchanges.

3.3.​ ​On-chain​ ​exchange
The exchange runs on chain and is accessible for all accounts, including normal accounts and
smart contracts. That allows smart contracts to directly interact with the exchange without a third
party intervention to receive funds/ payments from different tokens that they do not support

11

originally. This feature enables usKyberNetwork to be an on-chain proxy payment platform for
all​ ​accounts,​ ​including​ ​normal​ ​accounts​ ​and​ ​smart​ ​contracts.

3.4.​ ​Compatibility
KyberNetwork does not require any modification in the underlying protocol of Ethereum and
existing smart contracts to function. Our payment API can communicate with existing contracts
without​ ​any​ ​change​ ​on​ ​their​ ​side.
That said, we also introduce a new contract wallet that holds all user Ether and tokens. The
wallet allows the user to pay with token A to a contract that expects token B, where the
conversion from A to B is seamlessly done by the KyberNetwork. The receiver will receive the
payment​ ​as​ ​if​ ​it​ ​was​ ​sent​ ​by​ ​the​ ​original​ ​user.

3.5.​ ​Comparison​ ​to​ ​existing​ ​systems
We compare KyberNetwork to existing systems in the table below. We left out Bancor
intentionally as they claim (from our private conversation) to be a platform that focus on
community​ ​tokens,​ ​rather​ ​than​ ​general​ ​purpose​ ​exchange.
Exchange

Trading
Cost​ 7​

Trustless

Instant
Trades

On-chain

Guaranteed
Liquidity

SecureAgainst
Attacks

Kraken/Poloniex

Low

No

No

No

Yes

No

Shapeshift

Low

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

Coinbase

Low

No

Yes

No

Yes

No

EtherDelta
Oasis​ ​Index

High

Yes

No

Yes

No

Yes

Swap.tech
0xProject

Low
Low

Somewh- No
at8

Hybrid

No

Not​ ​sure9

KyberNetwork

Low

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

​ ​Cost​ ​to​ ​execute​ ​a​ ​trade,​ ​apart​ ​from​ ​the​ ​trading​ ​fees.
​ ​Users​ ​need​ ​to​ ​trust​ ​the​ ​relays​ ​to​ ​match​ ​them​ ​the​ ​best​ ​counterparties
9
​ ​Attackers​ ​can​ ​create​ ​fake​ ​orders​ ​without​ ​any​ ​cost.​ ​No​ ​guarantee​ ​that​ ​a​ ​trade​ ​can​ ​be​ ​settled.
7
8

12

4.​ ​Applications
4.1.​ ​Instant​ ​and​ ​secure​ ​exchange
First and foremost, KyberNetwork is an exchange. Unlike most exchanges, however,
KyberNetwork performs trade requests instantly. Moreover, KyberNetwork does not hold users’
tokens,​ ​thus​ ​any​ ​theft​ ​or​ ​loss​ ​of​ ​tokens​ ​is​ ​prevented​ ​by​ ​design.
This contrasts sharply to most exchanges where confirmation time of several minutes is typically
needed. Any malfunction during that period could potentially result in inconvenience or in the
worst​ ​case​ ​scenario,​ ​loss​ ​of​ ​funds.

4.2.​ ​Generic​ ​payment​ ​APIs​ ​with​ ​any​ ​token
Conducting an exchange over a smart contract allows user to pay for any service or product
with any crypto token they prefer. The contract will provide instant conversion to Ether and
securely pay on behalf of the user to any contract he wishes. The figure below describes how a
user could participate in an ICO that accepts only Ether with any token. The entire process
occurs within a single transaction, and the KyberNetwork never has a possession on the user
tokens​ ​(neither​ ​token​ ​A​ ​nor​ ​token​ ​B).

4.3.​ ​Trusted​ ​on-chain​ ​source​ ​for​ ​rate​ ​quotes
KyberNetwork exchange rates are visible to other smart contracts. Hence, it enables the
implementation of advanced financial instruments such as swap contracts. The quotes provided
by KyberNetwork are secure as they reflect the real rates which are being used to trade
between​ ​pairs​ ​of​ ​tokens.

13

4.4.​ ​Mitigate​ ​the​ ​risks​ ​of​ ​price​ ​fluctuations
Due to the illiquidity of crypto assets, the exchange rates often seem too volatile due to irregular
demand and supply. This issue is aggravated further due to lack of parties that are willing to
warehouse crypto-assets. The lack of options means now that it is almost impossible for users
of crypto assets to hedge themselves for future requirements. The KyberNetwork will be
addressing this challenge by introducing derivatives in the forms of forwards and options to
provide​ ​more​ ​alternatives​ ​to​ ​users.

4.5.​ ​Forwards
A forward is a contract whereby parties agree to trade an asset at a later date at a price
specified in the present. One of the common problems as ICOs become mainstream is the need
for some users to convert between tokens, such as from Melon to ETH, in preparation to
participate in an upcoming ICO. The user could either acquire ETH at current market rate or
commit to a forward contract to negate the risk of the price fluctuations in the ETH as an viable
alternative.

4.6.​ ​Options
Options contracts allow users to hedge against adverse price movement for a fee called
premium. A call option gives the owner of the contract the right to purchase the crypto asset at
an agreed price. A put option is an opposite. The premium is calculated using the implied
volatility​ ​of​ ​the​ ​underlying​ ​crypto​ ​asset.
The user of crypto assets that need to prepare for a future purchase or sale commitments can
pay a premium to buy a call or put option. As an example, holders of iced tokens are able to
write​ ​call​ ​options​ ​to​ ​earn​ ​premiums​ ​while​ ​forgoing​ ​the​ ​upside​ ​of​ ​the​ ​price.

5.​ ​Road​ ​map

The​ ​road​ ​map​ ​of​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​includes​ ​several​ ​phases.

5.1.​ ​Phase​ ​0:​ ​Testnet​ ​deployment

Est.​ ​delivery:​ ​August​ ​2017
Develop an MVP version of our platform, including the KyberNetwork wallet, the main
KyberNetwork contract and our reserve dashboard. The purpose of this phase is to create a
basic and functional version of KyberNetwork with all the main functionalities and applications.
The MVP will be released publicly, and the related contracts will be deployed and tested on the
Ethereum​ ​testnet.
14

5.2.​ ​Phase​ ​1:​ ​Basic​ ​mainnet​ ​deployment

Est.​ ​delivery:​ ​Q1​ ​2018
We deploy the first version of KyberNetwork on the mainnet. We start off with supporting trades
and proxy payments between any tokens to and from Ether. It is likely that our reserve will be
the the main one that serves all the trades, though we plan to partner with big token holders and
other market makers to introduce their reserve in KyberNetwork. The tokens that we support will
be​ ​the​ ​popular​ ​tokens​ ​that​ ​have​ ​high​ ​demand​ ​and​ ​high​ ​trading​ ​volumes​ ​in​ ​the​ ​market.
We will also partner with wallet providers like MyEtherWallet, Status, Jaxx and others to
implement the core features of KyberNetwork. Since most users stay with their favourite wallet,
bringing​ ​our​ ​features​ ​to​ ​the​ ​wallets​ ​is​ ​the​ ​best​ ​way​ ​to​ ​increase​ ​the​ ​ ​adoption​ ​of​ ​KyberNetwork.

5.3.​ ​Phase​ ​2:​ ​Supporting​ ​arbitrary​ ​pairs​ ​of​ ​tokens

Est.​ ​delivery:​ ​Q2​ ​2018
This phase can be easily achieved following the smooth implementation of phase 1. By then,
we expect to have more reserves (i.e. market makers) to join KyberNetwork. The number of
supporting​ ​tokens​ ​will​ ​increase​ ​as​ ​we​ ​can​ ​get​ ​more​ ​reserves​ ​in​ ​our​ ​platform.
KyberNetwork will also work with other strategic partners to build APIs to allow users in their
platforms to efficiently withdraw tokens/ shared fees in prefered tokens. For example, many
platforms, projects are employing the fees sharing model in which token holders share all the
platform fees (which may be spread in many tokens) collected from platform users. Token
holders in these platforms may get their shared fees in, for example, ETH seamlessly via
KyberNetwork​ ​if​ ​these​ ​platforms​ ​use​ ​our​ ​related​ ​APIs.

5.4.​ ​Phase​ ​3:​ ​Trading​ ​advanced​ ​financial​ ​instruments

Est.​ ​delivery:​ ​Q4​ ​2018
Once our development and operations stabilizes, we will deploy phase 3 of KyberNetwork, in
which​ ​we​ ​support​ ​trading​ ​advanced​ ​financial​ ​instruments​ ​as​ ​discussed​ ​in​ ​Section​ ​4.
We plan to work with decentralized hedge fund platforms (e.g. provided by Melonport) that allow
people to invest in trustless hedge fund and get the profit share from efficient fund
managements. Our team needs to discuss, exchange and build APIs between the related
platforms to enable us to do what we aim to do in a secure way. Similarly, collaborations with
ICOs​ ​projects​ ​that​ ​have​ ​vesting​ ​schemes​ ​for​ ​their​ ​founders,​ ​advisors​ ​are​ ​also​ ​important.

5.5.​ ​Phase​ ​4:​ ​Support​ ​cross-chain​ ​trades

Est.​ ​delivery:​ ​End​ ​2018/​ ​Early​ ​2019
The deployment in this phase allows users to trade between Ether/ tokens to Bitcoin, ZCash,
ETC and so on. There are two ways to enable this goal: using chain relays (e.g. BTCRelay and
ZecRelay) or using interchain communication protocols (e.g. Cosmos, Polkadot). We will watch
15

the development of these protocols and relays closely to decide which solution will be employed
in​ ​KyberNetwork.

6.​ ​Crowdsale​ ​and​ ​the​ ​KyberNetwork​ ​Crystal

A fixed number of KyberNetwork Crystal tokens (KNC) will be distributed to the public in
exchange for Ether contribution. The details of how many KNC are distributed, and how the sale
is​ ​conducted​ ​will​ ​be​ ​publicly​ ​available​ ​in​ ​our​ ​blog​ ​posts​ ​and​ ​website.

6.1.​ ​Use​ ​of​ ​tokens
KyberNetwork Crystal (KNC) tokens are required for reserves to participate in the network and
to​ ​reward​ ​various​ ​parties​ ​who​ ​will​ ​help​ ​generate​ ​more​ ​trading​ ​activities​ ​in​ ​the​ ​platform.
KyberNetwork will rely on various partners, including both software and hardware wallets,
blockchain explorers, and on-chain smart contracts to direct users to the platform. These
partners​ ​will​ ​be​ ​paid​ ​in​ ​KNC​ ​for​ ​every​ ​trade​ ​that​ ​they​ ​introduce​ ​to​ ​KyberNetwork.
Before operating, KyberNetwork reserves need to pre-purchase and store KNC tokens. In every
trade, a small fraction (exact numbers are TBD) of the trade volume will be paid by the reserve
to KyberNetwork platform in KNC. This small fee represents the reserve's payment in return for
the right to be able to operate and earn profits from trading activities in KyberNetwork. The
collected KNC tokens from the fees, after paying for the operation expenses and to the
supporting partners, will be ​burned​, i.e. taken out of circulation. The burning of tokens could
potentially increase the appreciation of the remaining KNC tokens as the total supply in
circulation reduces. In order to determine the network fees, the conversion rate between KNC
and ETH will be updated frequently to the Kyber contract by KNC operators, based on the
trading​ ​rates​ ​on​ ​various​ ​exchanges.
As an example, for a trade volume of 10 ETH with a 0.01% fee, a corresponding 0.001 ETH
worth of KNC will be paid by the chosen reserve to KyberNetwork as a fee for the use of the
reserve dashboard and access to network users. Suppose the rate of KNC at the trading time is
1 KNC for 0.1 ETH, the reserve needs to pay 0.01 KNC to the Kyber platform. The wallet/
website that helped the user initiate the trade will get, supposedly, 5% of the fees, or 0.0005
KNC.​ ​The​ ​remaining​ ​95%​ ​of​ ​the​ ​fees,​ ​or​ ​0.0095​ ​KNC​ ​will​ ​be​ ​burned​ ​forever.
This approach would increase the demand of existing KNC tokens as the trading volume
happening on KyberNetwork increases. The approach also properly rewards all participants who
help grow the ecosystem. KNC token holders can easily track the total supply by reading from
the​ ​contract,​ ​without​ ​relying​ ​on​ ​any​ ​off-chain​ ​accounting​ ​firm.

16

7.​ ​Acknowledgement

We thank our advisors, namely Wong Lee Hong, Vitalik Buterin, Leng Hoe Lon, Prateek Saxena
and our friends, namely Tsun Ngai Lee, Stelian Balta, Reto Trinkler for their feedback on the
earlier​ ​version​ ​of​ ​this​ ​paper.

8.​ ​The​ ​team
8.1.​ ​Core​ ​members
1. Loi​ ​Luu
Loi Luu is a researcher working on cryptocurrencies, smart contract security and
distributed consensus algorithms. His research publications are available ​online​, and he
is a regular invited speaker at Bitcoin and Ethereum workshops such as DevCon2,
EdCon,​ ​Scaling​ ​Bitcoin.
Loi believes in the force of the Ethereum and Blockchain technology. Much of his work
revolves around this community. He developed Oyente, the first open-source security
analyzer for Ethereum smart contracts. Next, he cofounded SmartPool, another open
source
project which embraces decentralization of mining pools in existing
cryptocurrency. He continues to champion decentralisation and trustless properties of
the Blockchain with KyberNetwork, taking inspiration and developing value for the
community.
2. Yaron​ ​Velner
Yaron Velner is a researcher and a co-founder of the SmartPool project. His research is
focused on aspects of game theory incentives in blockchain protocols and formal
verification of smart contracts. He holds a Phd in computer science from Tel Aviv
University. In his Phd thesis he investigated applications of game theory techniques to
formal​ ​verification​ ​of​ ​computer​ ​programs​ ​and​ ​systems.
Yaron is also an experienced software developer with over 10 years of experience as a
senior software engineer and a technical leader at EZchip semi-conductors (recently
acquired by Mellanox technologies). At EZchip he was a member in the data structure
and​ ​algorithm​ ​team,​ ​which​ ​developed​ ​novel​ ​data​ ​structures​ ​for​ ​IP​ ​routing.
3. Victor​ ​Tran
Victor Tran is a senior backend engineer and Linux system administrator. He has
experience in developing and building infrastructure for multiple social marketing
platforms and advertising networks. He is interested in building high performance
multi-platform​ ​applications.
17

Victor co-founded and was CTO of several startups in social marketing. He built and
maintained platforms which handled millions of monthly active users. Victor is currently
the​ ​lead​ ​engineer​ ​in​ ​the​ ​SmartPool​ ​project.
4. Cuong​ ​Nguyen
Cuong is a senior web developer with several years building interesting web
applications. He recently spends most of his time on experimenting with various
blockchain​ ​platforms​ ​including​ ​Bitcoin,​ ​Ethereum​ ​and​ ​IBM's​ ​Fabric​ ​ledger.

8.2.​ ​Advisors
1. Wong​ ​Lee​ ​Hong
Wong Lee Hong career spans across various industries over 3 decades. He has
extensive distribution and business development experience in consumer electronic,
multimedia, computer gaming, internet and the banking sectors. The second half of his
career was spent developing the Internet Banking capability of a major financial
institution, venture capital activities in strategic startups and regulatory management
role, dealing with banking regulators in Asia in matters relating to banking technology
and​ ​operations.​ ​At​ ​present,​ ​he​ ​is​ ​a​ ​Blockchain​ ​enthusiast​ ​and​ ​investor.
2. Leng​ ​Hoe​ ​Lon
Leng Hoe Lon co-founded Shentilium with National University of Singapore, with the aim
of using the latest data-driven technology to drive business decisions and gain
competitive edge. He also co-founded TrackRecord Asia, with the vision that anyone can
learn to trade in the financial markets profitably within a professional risk management
framework. Prior to this, he held various positions in the financial industry including
Deutsche Bank (London and Singapore), JPMorgan (Singapore), ABN Amro
(Singapore). He was a Managing Director in Goldman Sachs’ Asia Macro Trading group
in HK and Asian FX trader in London. He was also CEO of Tudor Capital Singapore, a
global​ ​macro​ ​hedge​ ​fund.
3. Prateek​ ​Saxena
Prateek Saxena is a research professor in computer science at National University of
Singapore. He works on blockchains and computer security. His research has influenced
the design of browser platforms, web standards and app stores widely used today. He
has​ ​received​ ​several​ ​premier​ ​awards​ ​such​ ​as​ ​the​ ​MIT​ ​TR35​ ​Asia.
4. Vitalik​ ​Buterin
Vitalik is the Founder and Chief Scientist of Ethereum. He is also both the Founder and a
writer for Bitcoin Magazine, a venture that marked the beginning of his career in crypto in
2011. He is interested in creating secure, efficient, and trustworthy systems and advises
a​ ​number​ ​of​ ​projects​ ​in​ ​the​ ​crypto​ ​space.
18

5. Pandia​ ​Jiang

Pandia is the founder of LinkTime and an organizer of several Ethereum workshops in China and
world wide. Pandia is an expert at building and managing community, providing crypto-business
advisory​ ​in​ ​China.

19

