Vlad Cristian
Bucharest, Romania
April, 2017

MaskNetwork

A p2p decentralized social trading network

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!1

Introduction
MaskNetwork is a social trading network that rewards bloggers and traders for
their effort in creating content. The network allows users to trade any type of
asset such as stocks, currencies, cryptocurrencies, indices, or any other asset for
which a data feed is defined. Not only are users able to trade anonymously
but certain user categories are also rewarded by the network. The process by
which rewards are paid is automatically done every 24 hours, without external
or third party intervention.
MaskNetwork is new software. It was written from scratch in the past two years
and is not fork of an existing software. It aims to fully decentralize the retail
trading area, which has grown enormously in recent years, but which is overregulated and lacks transparency. It is and will always be open source.
MaskNetwork can be accessed through web nodes. A web node is a website
that allows you to access all MaskNetwork features like sending transactions or
securing addresses. A web node is the easiest method of using the network.
Running a web node is a great way to spread the word about MaskNetwork and
make money in the same time.

Retail trading market
There are two basic types of traders : retail and institutional. Retail traders,
often referred to as individual traders, buy or sell securities for personal account.
Institutional traders buy and sell securities for accounts they manage for a group
or institution. Pension funds, mutual fund families, insurance companies and
exchange traded funds (ETFs) are common institutional traders.
Prior to the development of online trading platforms in the late 90s, trading was
restricted to large financial institutions. It was the development of the internet,
trading software, and forex brokers allowing trading on margin that started the
growth of retail trading. In the last years, traders were able to trade spot
currencies or stocks with market makers on margin. This mean they needed to
put down only a small percentage of the trade size and can buy and sell
currencies in seconds.
Retail online trading has been promoted by some as an easy way to make
profits. As a result, the number of individual traders and brokers increased
steadily as did trading volumes.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!2

At present there are hundreds of active brokers on the market while new
brokers and new traders are entering the market every month. Many of the new
traders do not have any trading experience and are attracted to misleading
advertisements promising quick profits with minimal effort. They don’t
understand how damaging a large spread is for their future profits or how easy
they can be manipulated by brokers.
Conforming to BIS ( Bank for International Settlements), in 2013
•
•
•
•
•
•

Retail traders where predominantly male
Madian age is 35
There where 4 millions traders spread around the globe
1.4 million live in Europe
1.6 million live in Asia
Only 150.000 live in US

Why MaskNetwork ?
In all investments, there is a risk of investment fraud. This risk can increase
for online brokers where the investor does not have a personal relationship and
the broker may be located in a different jurisdiction. As we have mentioned
before, retail online trading has been promoted by some as an easy way to make
profits and has thus been the focus for a number of frauds. In response,
financial regulators in a number of countries have introduced permanent
restrictions and provided warnings about this type of trading as well as legal
actions against perpetrators.
As a result of regulatory framework and associated costs, brokers imposed
higher minimum fees / transaction sizes while all of them forced traders to
provide identification data like Photo IDs, proof of residence and so on.
These are the main problems faced by the retail trading market
• Lack of transparency of brokers. You can sell and buy hundreds of times
the EURUSD pair without knowing what's going on behind or how financially
stable your broker is. Brokers are still black boxes for end users.
• High fees (especially for trading shares)
• Minimum transaction sizes
• Maximum leverages imposed by regulators

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!3

• AML, KNY rules imposed on all traders
• Huge entry costs for new brokers.
• Inability of most European / Asian brokers to serve US customers (due to
regulation).

In the end regulation solved nothing. Retail trading market is not transparent, it
has high entry costs and in the last years became over-regulated. We believe
the retail trading market is the perfect candidate to be disrupted
and decentralized. And we think we have a solution.

MaskCoin
MaskCoin (MSK) is the cryptographic currency underlying the network. For
any service or transaction, users will pay a small fee in MaskCoin. The number
of coins is limited to 21,000,000 which will be slowly distributed to miners and
content creators.
Default Network Address
Unlike other networks like Bitcoin, where a small amount of coins is created
every day, in MaskNetwork all coins are created on the first block and stored in a
special address called Default Network Address (DNA). This address does
not have a private key and is entirely controlled by the software. Default
Network Address receives all user-paid fees and distributes rewards to miners
and creators every day.

Network Fees
As mentioned for any transaction / service, users will pay a fee. Fees are
essential to avoid spam attacks. Fees vary depending on the service used. Unlike
other systems, in MaskNetwork, fees do not go to miners but go to Default
Network Address. Miners will always be paid by network, not by users. Below
are some examples of fees
• Sending coins to another address - 0.1% of amount sent
• Sending assets to another address - 0.0001 MSK for every unit of asset sent

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!4

• Renting a name for your address - 0.0001 MSK / day
• Restricting recipients - 0.0001 MSK / day
On top of this, all addresses will pay a fee of 0.0001 MSK / day (~1440 blocks).
Empty addresses will be removed from the distributed ledger and will be
reincluded when they receive funds. This fee is essential to get rid of inactive
addresses holding very small quantities of MSK. As a general rule any
MaskNetwork address will pay 0.0365 MSK / year as a maintenance fee.

Distribution
Every year, the network uses 5% of undistributed coins to reward miners and
content creators. This means ~ 0.013% / day of the undistributed amount. The
maximum annual inflation rate is 5%. Because in the first years the
undistributed quantity will decrease every day, the rewards pool will be smaller
and smaller each day.
For example, block reward decreases 0.0001 MSK every two blocks.
Undistributed coins are held by Default Network Address. This address’ balance
will never reach 0 MSK because it will distribute fewer and fewer coins. Sooner
or later, the earnings of this address (from the fees) will be higher than the
rewards paid to users. There are 3 scenarios:
• The default address spends more coins that receives from fees - rewards
decrease each day
•
• The default address receives the same amount of coins it spends - the rewards
tend to remain unchanged
• The default address receives from fees more than it spends on rewards rewards tend to increase every day
In the long run, the revenue / spending of Default Network Address ratio will
tend to 1.
Initially, the default network address will hold 20.000.000 coins (1.000.000
reserved for ICO, bounties and the developers). In the first year, a maximum of
975.477 coins will be distributed. This quantity will gradually decrease, and in

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!5

2027 only 621.972 coins will be distributed. This is the extreme case where the
default address has no revenue. Depending on the revenue received, the
amounts distributed will be slightly higher. But never more than 5% of the
default network address balance will be distributed per year.
Below is a chart showing the maximum available supply of coins in the
next 10 years ( in case the default network address has no income which is
impossible ). In case fees amount become really high due to increased adoption
the total supply will tend to remain unchanged from year to year.
Maximum Available Supply (2017-2027)
9000000

6750000

4500000

2250000

0

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

2024

2025

2026

2027

Premine and the ICO
At block 0, 635.000 coins (3% of total number of coins) will be deposited in
ICO participants addresses / bounty participants / developers address. ICO will
be launched in June, 2017. The funds received will help the team develop the
project and MaskNetwork ecosystem in the following years. Our target is to sell
500.000 coins during ICO. All unsold coins will be deposited in
developer’s address. Also 10.000 coins will be used for bounties. Another
25.000 coins were distributed during the pre-sale held back in 2016. Developers
will receive 100.000 coins plus any unsold coins during ICO.
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!6

Rewards distribution
There are two main categories of rewarded network users. The first category is
the miners that maintain network security (MaskNetwork uses an innovative
POW algorithm) and the second category is represented by content creators
such as bloggers, data feeds providers, asset issuers, and so on. Check below for a
detailed chart of distribution.
Miners are rewarded after each block created. The rest of the users are
rewarded every 1440 blocks (~ 24 hours). Payment of rewards is hard-coded in
the network code and is done automatically based on clear rules without any
outside intervention.
As mentioned above, multiple categories of users are rewarded. Except for
miners that are rewarded each block, the content is rewarded based on the votes
received from users.

Votes
Voters are heavily rewarded for curation. Voters usually receives 50% of content
reward. For example if a blog post receives 10 MSK in rewards, 5 MSK goes to
content owner and 5 MSK is distributed to voters (curators) that uprooted /
down voted the content.
Any address that holds at least 0.1 MSK can upvote or downvote content. The
power of voting is based on the MSK balance of the voted address and the time
of voting. After each vote, the address voting power decreases. The voting power
of the address is calculated by the formula

P=B/N
P = voting power
B = address balance in MSK and
N = the number of votes in the last 24 hours.
In case of Blog posts, comments or binary options the vote power decreases
0.07% / block from the time content is posted.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!7

P = P-(0.07 * T * P/100)
P = voting power
T = number of blocks since the content was first created
Below is an example :
A blog post is posted at block 1000. An address holding 10 MSK that has no
votes in the last 24 hours up vote the content 10 blocks after posting (~ 10
minutes after posting). The vote power is 9.93 points. The same blog post is
voted at block 2000 (~16 hours after posting) by an address holding 500 coins
that already voted 4 other blog posts. The vote power will be only 30 points.
Even if the address has a balance x50 bigger than the initial vote, the time of
voting and the previous number of votes decreased the address voting
power.
Each category of content creators / miners have it’s own reward pool. Below is
a chart presenting rewards distribution by user type. Keep in mind that the
daily reward pool is 0.013% of Default Network Address. Because this
balance will decrease in the first years, the reward pool will be smaller and
smaller every single day.

Miners (25% to voters)
Comments (50% to voters)
Data Feeds Providers
Margin Market Owners

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

Bog Posts (50% to voters)
Assets Issuers
Binary Options (50% to voters)

!8

When and how content creators / miners are rewarded
Miners are rewarded after each block created. Miners' block reward drops with
~ 0.00000001 MSK on every two blocks mined. Miners will pay 25% of the
reward to voters. In MaskNetwork users can up vote / down vote miners.
Depending on the votes received, miners will work on a higher / lower difficulty.
Unlike other systems, in MaskNetwork, not all miners are working on the same
difficulty. If they are heavily down voted by stakeholders it will be more difficult
for them to mine new blocks. without equipment upgrades / more cash spent on
electricity. Miner’s reward pool is 30% of total reward pool.
Bloggers are rewarded every 1440 blocks (~ 24 hours) depending on the votes
they receive. The reward is shared with those who voted the post. Only 50% of
the prize will go to the person who created the post. Bloggers reward pool is
20% of total reward pool
Commentators also have a separate reward pool. Users can comment on blog
posts or other categories of content and can be up voted or down voted. Like
bloggers, they will receive 50% of the prize. The other half goes to voters.
Commentators reward pool is 10% of total reward pool.
Asset issuers will receive 5% of total reward pool. They will not split this
reward with voters. Users can’t directly up vote an asset. The asset will be
automatically be up voted by an address when the address receives an asset.
Assets can’t be down voted.
Data feed providers receive 10% of total daily reward pool. Data feed is a
mechanism for MaskNetwork users to receive updated data from data sources.
Based on data feeds, binary options or margin markets can be launched. When
a user buys a binary option or trade on a market based on a data feed, that data
feed gets an up vote from that address. This is how data feeds are rewarded.
Data feed owners don’t split the reward with voters.
Binary options issuers receive 15% of daily reward pool. Rewards are
distributed every 1440 blocks. Like bloggers, option issuers will receive only
50% of the reward. The other half goes to voters.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!9

Margin markets operators will receive 10% of daily reward pool. Over
MaskNetwork, margin markets allow users to trade on margin a specific asset.
Like binary options, margin markets are based on data feeds. In the real world
buying on margin is borrowing money from a broker to purchase stock. You can
think of it as a loan from your brokerage. Over MaskNetwork, a margin market
allows you to place leveraged bets against the market owner. Margin markets
prices are provided by data feeds. All your losses are market owner's gains and
vice versa. Not only that traders don't pay any interest but margin market
operators are rewarded by network every 24 hours for their effort and risk.
Margin markets operators don’t split the reward with voters. You can’t directly
up vote a margin market. The market will automatically be up voted when a
user place a leveraged position.

Basic network features
The network has two features layers. The first deals with basic operations like
transactions, addresses, messaging and so on. The second implements the
trading modules like data feeds, binary options or margin markets.

Addresses
A MaskNetwork address, or simply address, is an identifier of 108-212
alphanumeric characters, that represents a possible destination for a MaskCoin
or asset payment. Addresses can be generated at no cost by any user of
MaskNetwork using any web wallet. It is also possible to get a MaskCoin address
using an account at an exchange.
The most important aspect of MaskNetwork addresses is that an address is
actually the concatenation, in Base58 format, of the public key. That
means you can send encrypted messages / data to any address with no
additional info required even if the address was never used before. The built
in messaging system provides exactly this function of sending secure, encrypted
messages between addresses. See details below.
Creating addresses can be done without an Internet connection and does not
require any contact or registration with the MaskCoin network. It is possible to
create large batches of addresses offline using freely available software tools like
the official paper wallet generator. Generating batches of addresses is useful in
several scenarios, such as e-commerce websites where a unique pre-generated
address is dispensed to each customer who chooses a "pay with MaskCoin"
option.
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!10

MaskNetwork addresses are case-sensitiveand should be copied and pasted using
the computer's clipboard wherever possible. If you hand-key a MaskNetwork
address, and each character is not transcribed exactly - including capitalization
the funds could never be recovered.
This is the reason the network provides and alias system, that allows users to
rent an address name like marry or casino and those who want to send others
funds can use this alias. Manually typing a raw network address is not
recommended.

Address Names (Aliases)
The Alias System is one of MaskNetwork simplest but most powerful features.
MaskNetwork Alias System essentially allows you to associate a name (up to
2-30 alphanumeric characters) to an address. This means that a long,
complicated or impossible-to-remember string of data like a network raw
address ID can be replaced by a shorter one.
The main advantage of this is the convenience it offers. You can use a single
word to represent something far more complex: your address details. Users can
rent an address name for 0.0001 MSK / day using any wallet in 3 clicks. The
fee is sent to default network address and is one of the network income streams.
Aliases can be rented on any period starting from 10 days. The alias will be
automatically removed from the distributed ledger when the expiration block is
mined. They behave just like internet domain names.
Aliases can be transferred to other addresses. Users can transfer them using any
web wallet. The costs are only 0.0001 MSK / transfer. This option makes it easy
to trade names with users who do not want to use the built-in address market.
The network also provides users with a decentralised p2p marketplace where
address names can be traded in a safe and risk-free. Users who want to sell an
address name can easily do it using any web wallet. The price is expressed in
MSK. Once a price is set, the offer for sale will be listed and potential buyers
can acquire the name in 2-3 clicks. Funds are transferred by the network from
the buyer to the former owner without any external intervention to escrower.
MaskNetwork address names market is the perfect example of a decentralized
p2p market where nobody knows anybody, but everyone can trade with zero
risks.
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!11

Address Profiles
Users who want to provide more information about themselves or their
company have the possibility to set up a public profile. Address profiles are
exactly like facebook profiles. Users can provide contact information, a brief
description, a profile picture or other details.
Because these profiles are retained in the block chain, they are public by default.
The profile setting fee is 0.0001 MSK / day. An address can have only one
active profile.

Restricted recipients
Restricting recipients is one of the best ways to protect your funds. If this feature
is enabled, an address can only send funds to a maximum of 3 other predefined
addresses. Any other transfer will be declined by the network.
Restricting recipients can be done easily, using any web nodes. Once enabled,
the option can no longer be canceled. By linking these options to multiple
addresses, it is possible to create highly complex multi signature schemes. Those
are especially useful if used by companies or other organisations.
For example, address A could be set to send funds only to B and C addresses,
and B and C addresses only to D.
Enable this option is perfect in case the user operates on a public web node
where the operator has access to all private keys. Even if the owner of the node
owns the private key, it can only move funds to up to three addresses that also
belong to the address owner. In this way, the address owner can continue to
work (votes, writing articles, etc.) without the risk of losing their funds.

Transactions
A transaction is a transfer of MaskCoin / asset value that is broadcast to the
network and collected into blocks just like any other packet type. A transaction
moves funds or assets from an address to another.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!12

Transactions may have only one source and one destination. Transactions with
multiple sources / recipients are not supported. Transactions are not encrypted,
so it is possible to browse and view every transaction ever collected into a block.
All transactions are visible in the block chain. Any web wallet includes a block
chain browser where every transaction included within the block chain can be
viewed in human-readable terms. This is useful for seeing the technical details
of transactions in action and for verifying payments.
If the transaction is denominated in MSK, the sender will pay a fee of 0.1%
the transacted value. The fee goes to the default network address and is the
main revenue source of the network. Transactions can also move assets
between addresses. If the transaction transfers an asset, then the fee will be
0.0001 MSK / asset transferred. The fee will also be paid by sender.
Asset issuers can specify a transfer fee and an address where this transfer
fee will be received. This transfer fee will be paid by the recipient of an asset
transaction. The fee is denominated in that asset and will be sent to the address
indicated by the asset issuer and not to the default network address. As a
general rule, default network address can only receive MSK. In case no
transfer fees are specified by issuer, the recipient will not pay anything.
In order to be able to receive an asset, users have to ‘trust’ an asset first.
Trusting an asset is an easy process that can be made using a web wallet. Once
an asset is trusted, the user is able to receive transactions denominated in that
asset.
Every time a user receives an asset transactions the recipient address will up
vote the asset. Up votes are reset every 24 hours. Only one vote / asset / 24
hours is allowed. Based on those up votes the asset issuer will be rewarded at
the end of the day.
Messages can be attached to any MaskNetwork transaction, making
bookkeeping easy, as you can tag all your transactions with a description. Project
developers can use the Messaging system to embed machine-readable data
within an MaskNetwork transaction. This allows automated functions by
reading the data sent to you on the blockchain. All messages are securely
encrypted and only the receiver can decrypt it.

Escrow Transactions
Users can also send escrowed transactions where a trusted third party
securely holds buyer's coins in escrow until the terms of the sale are met and as
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!13

a result the buyer or the escrow address release payment to the seller. Escrow
transactions are built-in the MaskNetwork protocol.
Sending an escrow transaction is a trivial process especially if all the parties
involved use a web wallet. All the sender has to do to initiate an escrow
transaction is to specify an escrow address. If such an address is specified, the
funds will leave the sender but will not reach the recipient.
The escrow address does not own the funds so the risk of fraud is completely
eliminated. Funds are blocked by the network for a maximum of one month,
until one party makes a decision.
• The sender can only release the funds to the recipient.
• The recipient may only remit the sender's funds back.
• The escrow address can release the funds to the recipient or remit the funds
back to the sender.
An escrow transaction costs 0.0030 MSK more than a regular one. When an
escrow transaction is initiated, all parties are informed and can make a decision
within 30 days. Decision means a signed package that once included in a block
will release the funds.

Messaging
The MaskNetwork Messaging system allows you to send and receive data on the
MaskNetwork Blockchain, thus allowing any network address holder to
communicate directly with any other addresses.All messages are securely
encrypted and only the receiver can decrypt it even if it traverse the whole
network. Because a MaskNetwork address is a Base64 coded public key, the
sender doesn’t need additional info in order to send a message to an address
even if that address was never used before.
Sending a message can be done easily using any web wallet. Messages are
delivered instantly even if they were not included in a block. This makes it
possible in the future to create p2p encrypted instant messaging applications.
Sending a message cost 0.0001 MSK.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!14

Blogs and comments
A blog is a frequently updated online personal journal or diary. It is a place to
express yourself to the world. A place to share your thoughts and your passions.
Really, it’s anything you want it to be. For our purposes we’ll say that a blog is
your own website that you are going to update on an ongoing basis. Blog is a
short form for the word weblog and the two words are used interchangeably.
MaskNetwork allows users to create and manage their own anonymous blog. If
other users feel that a post is original and informative they can up vote it.
Depending on the number / strength of votes received every 24 hours, bloggers
are rewarded in MaskCoins.
20% of total daily reward pool is reserved for bloggers and voters. The reward is
shared with those who voted the post. Only 50% of the reward will be received
by blogger. The rest will be distributed to voters.
Users can also down vote a blog post. The total votes power a blog posts receives
is calculated using the formula

TVP=UP-DP
VP = votes power
UP = up votes power
DP = down votes power
The blog post will be rewarded depending on the total votes power received.
Both up voters and down voters are rewarded even if the down voters can
significantly reduce the reward amount.
Users can vote a blog post once every 1440 blocks. A blog post can be voted
multiple times by the same address while it’s online and visible and they can be
rewarded many days after initial publishing in case they receive enough votes.
Users can maintain their blog using the tools provided by web wallets. Posting a
blog post cost 0.0001 MSK / day. Users can publish a post blog for at least 30
days but may extend this period if they so wish. After this period expires, the
post is removed from the distributed ledger and can’t be voted anymore.
Users can also comment on a post. Just like blog posts, comments can be up
voted / down voted and the authors rewarded. Commentators have their own
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!15

reward pool. Every 1440 blocks (~24 hours) 10% of total daily reward pool is
used to reward comments. Commentators will split this reward with voters just
like bloggers do.

Follow / Unfollow
Following someone means you've chosen to subscribe to their MaskNetwork
updates. When you follow an address, every time they post a new blog post, it
will appear on your home timeline. Following an address costs 0.0001 MSK /
day. You can follow an unlimited number of addresses. If you think an address’s
post has become worthless, you can unfollow that address by paying a fee of
0.0001 MSK.
Just like any other action, following / unfollowing an address can be made using
a web wallet.

Advanced network features
Data feeds
Data feed is a mechanism for MaskNetwork users to receive updated data
from data sources. Data feeds could present the last price of a stock or the last
temperature recorder in London. There is no limit on what data feeds can
represent.
Any user can setup a new data feed. All they need is a reliable data source (a
web page for example) that will provide the data in a predefined format (read
the data feeds technical documentation for more info).
A data feed consists of several branches. Each branch presents the price of a
single external asset. For example, if you want to present the EURUSD price
and the GBPUSD price of the network, you will need to create a two-branch
data stream. A data stream can contain up to 1,000 branches. Setting a
branch costs 0.0001 MSK / day.
Once setup the wallet will query the data source every minute, grab the data,
format and broadcast the feed packet. Once included in a block, the nodes will
update the last prices accordingly. This process is fully automated with no
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!16

user intervention. All you need to do is make sure the data source (web page) is
up to date and accessible over the web. The web wallet software will do the rest.
Based on votes received, data feeds are also rewarded by the network. The
most important difference from blog posts is that a data feed can not be
manually up voted / down voted. A data feed is up voted automatically when
a user buys a binary option or launch a transaction using a market that uses the
data stream. Also, data feeds operators do not share the rewards with voters.
Based on data feeds, binary options or margin markets can be launched.
Suppose an address (A) launches a binary option using a data feed (D). When an
address (B) will buy the binary option, it will automatically up vote the data
feed (D) used by the operator. Also, address A will up vote the data stream (D).
Data feeds can not be down voted.
Data feeds have their own reward pool consisting in 10% of total daily reward
pool and are rewarded every 1440 blocks (~24 hours).

User Issued Assets (UIA)
An asset is a digital token that can be transferred between addresses in the same
way that MaskCoins are transferred. The main difference between an user
issued asset and MaskCoin is that an asset is issued by a user and not by the
network as a whole.
MaskNetwork assets are a convenient way to represent anything fungible and
tradeable. An asset token could represent a bar of silver, a pizza redemption
coupon, a share in a company, even a portion of a portfolio of other assets. By
representing these things digitally on the blockchain, they can be publicly
verified and easily traded.
The MaskNetwork assets are based on the concept of the ‘colored coin’. More
specifically, MaskNetwork assets are based on the ability of the blockchain to
recognise and therefore trace the origin of transactions involving a coin or a set
of coins which have been designated to represent any type of asset you can
imagine, whether digital (for example, stocks, bonds, smart property) or tangible
(for example, cars, houses, precious metals etc).
An asset is under the full control of the person who created it. Those who issue
assets can increase the available supply whenever they want. Assets issued by
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!17

users do not have a limited amount. Once the asset is issued, the whole qty
belongs to the creator.
The value of an asset depends on issuer. For example, if someone issues an asset
representing 1 gram of virtual gold that can be bought or sold for 1 gr of real
gold, its value depends exclusively on the the person who issued it. If the issuer
disappears, or refuses to give you one gr. of real gold for 1 asset, the value of
that asset will become zero in no time.
Any user can issue his / her own asset. Issuing an asset can be done very easily
using a web wallet. The creator has to provide a few details such as asset name,
symbol, brief description and eventually a transfer fee.
The issuer may charge a transfer fee that will be paid by the beneficiary of an
asset transaction. The fee will be denominated in the asset and represents a
maximum of 5% of the amount received. The fee is sent to an address specified
by the issuer. For example if the transfer fee of asset TESTTE is 1%, and a user
receives 10 TESTTE, he / she will pay a fee of 0.1 TESTTE. The fee will be
transferred to an address owned by the issuer.
Assets issuers are also rewarded by the network. Each time a user sends assets to
another address, the asset will automatically be up voted by the sender. Based on
these votes, every 1440 blocks assets issuers will be rewarded by the network.
Assets have their own reward pool consisting of 5% of the daily reward pool.
Assets as well as data feeds can not be voted manually and can not be down
voted.
Assets can also be used as currency in binary options or margin markets if the
binary option or market has been set to use that asset.
An asset is identified by its symbol. The asset symbol is a 6-character string that
uniquely identifies an asset.
Like the other categories of content, assets are issued for a limited period that
can be extended. When this period expire the asset will be liquidated by
network. All asset balances will be deleted. The person who issues an asset will
have to pay a fee that is determined using the formula

F = Q * 0.0001
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!18

F = fee
Q = Initial asset qty
Another difference from MaskCoins is that an asset can not be sent to an
address if the address does not trust the asset. We have introduced this rule to
limit spam. In order for an address to be able to receive an asset, the address
must first trust that asset. It is a simple process that can be done from the asset
presentation page.

Assets Exchange
The MaskNetwork Assets Exchange is a peer-to-peer exchange built directly
into the MaskNetwork software, allowing secure and fast decentralized trading
in MaskNetwork Assets. This eliminates the need to transfer assets or to put trust
in an outside agency or business, and as MaskNetwork Assets can be used to
represent literally anything (from Bitcoin to coffee beans) there are a wide range
of potential investments or trades to be made on the Asset Exchange.
The MaskNetwork Asset Exchange matches asset buyers and sellers, it works in
a similar way to cryptocurrency exchanges. All asset exchange operations can be
accessed using a web wallet.
Any user can launch an asset exchange. An exchange is used to buy / sell an
asset for a currency. The currency may be MSK or another asset. Once
launched, users can start trading. Markets allow placing buy / sell orders as well
as a mechanism by which buy orders are matched with sales orders. Trading on
such a market does not involve fees, except for the transaction fees paid to the
asset issuer.
Because an asset exchange can be use to trade any asset for any other asset,
exchanges have to be manually created by users. Those exchanges are not
automatically created when an asset is issued. The fees for starting a new
exchange is 0.0001 MSK / day. Also, those who place buy / sell orders will pay
a MSK 0.0001 fee for their pending orders.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!19

Binary Options
In the real world a binary option is a financial option in which the payoff is
either some fixed monetary amount or nothing at all. Writing binary options is
usually reserved for big traders / institutions.
MaskNetwork enables anyone to write their own, individual options. The
trader can not only choose the direction but also assign a payout and other
conditions. The created option is then broadcasted to the network. Traders can
buy entire option, or just a portion, which means better risk management for
every trader.
A binary option can be up voted manually but will also be automatically up
voted when a user buys a portion / the whole option. Binary option issuers will
split their reward with those who uprooted the option. A binary option can be
manually down voted.
You can look at binary options as a p2p bet where the initiator publishes the
conditions and provides a collateral from which buyers will be paid. The
collateral is blocked by the network, and the initiator no longer has access to
funds as long as the option is active.
Binary options are based on data feeds. If the price presented by the feed
meets the conditions imposed by the option, then the network closes the option
and pays the winners. Absolutely the entire process is managed by the network
and all the data is public. The risks for both the initiator and the buyer of an
option are zero.
To better understand how a binary option takes place, we'll describe the entire
process below. Suppose a user wants to launch an option that sounds like this:
"All those who buy this option will earn 100% of their investment if the
BTC / USD price reaches $ 2000 in the next 10 days. I agree to accept
buyers for 2 days."
1. First, the one who wants to launch an option chooses a reliable data feed that
provides the BTC / USD price.
2. Any wallet web allows users to launch a binary option. The user will set a
name, a small description, specify the data feed on which the option is based,
MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!20

indicate how long users can buy the option, and clearly set out the conditions
in which buyers win the option. It also specify how much buyers will earn and
set the collateral size. If he is right he will win all the amounts deposited
by the buyers. If he loses, he will pay the buyers the invested sums plus the
promised bonus, in our case 100% of buyer’s investments.
3. Once included in a block, the option becomes active. The network will
block the funds set as collateral. The option initiator has no control over the
option or the funds. Everything is in control of the network.
4. Those who want to buy the option can use any web wallet. If they think they
can win they can buy a piece or the whole option. In case a user decides to
buy, he/she will have to specify how much will allocate to this option. The
network will block those funds until the option ends. When the user buys the
option, his/her address will automatically up vote the option. Based on
those votes the option issuer will be rewarded. Users can also manually up vote
down vote the option. The vote power depends both on voter address’s balance
and time of voting as described in Blogs section.
5. Users can only buy an option within a number of blocks specified by
initiator. After this period expires, the network blocks any acquisition and will
check after each block if the conditions imposed by issuer are met. An option
can be cleared when the price presented by the data feed falls within the
conditions imposed by the option or when the expiration date is reached. In our
case, the option will be terminated if the BTC / USD price reaches $ 2000
or if 10 days pass without the price reaching that threshold.
6. If the BTC / USD price reaches $ 2000, the network will use the collateral
to pay buyers. If there are any free funds, they will be returned to the option
issuer.
7. If 10 days pass and the BTC / USD price does not reach $ 2000, then the
network will send all buyer money together with the colaterall to option issuer.
The entire process is carried out independently in conditions of maximum
transparency by the network software.
Another important aspect is that binary options can be set to accept MSK or
any other asset as a currency.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!21

Margin Markets
Margin markets are a kind of decentralized virtual market that allows users to
trade any asset on margin. In the real world, trading on margin means
borrowing money from your broker to buy a stock and using your investment
as collateral. Usually investors will pay interest for borrowed money. Over
Mask Network, a margin market allows users to place leveraged bets against
the market owner. Margin markets prices are provided by data feeds. All your
losses are market owner's gains and vice versa. Not only that traders don't pay
any interest but margin market operators are rewarded by network every 24
hours.
Any user can start his own margin market. He/she only needs an initial capital
as collateral that will be blocked by the network as long as the market is
active. Market owners can close a margin market anytime they want. If there
are open positions, they will be automatically liquidated by the network
software.
Users can use any web wallet to inits
Margin market operators are also rewarded by the network. When a trader
initiate a position using a margin market, the address used to trade will
automatically up vote the market. Based on those votes, margin market
operators are rewarded every 1440 blocks. They don’t split the reward with
voters. Margin markets reward pool is 10% of daily reward pool.

Consensus & Mining
Consensus
The consensus algorithm implemented by MaskNetwork is called Variable
Proof of Work (VPOW) and is derived from the classic POW used by Bitcoin
and hundreds of other clones.
A proof of work is a piece of data which is difficult (costly, time-consuming)
to produce but easy for others to verify and which satisfies certain requirements.
Producing a proof of work can be a random process with low probability so that
a lot of trial and error is required on average before a valid proof of work is
generated.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!22

Bitcoin for example uses the hashcash proof of work system.
Hashcash proofs of work are used in Bitcoin for block generation. In order for a
block to be accepted by network participants, miners must complete a proof of
work which covers all of the data in the block. The difficulty of this work is
adjusted so as to limit the rate at which new blocks can be generated by the
network to one every 10 minutes. Due to the very low probability of successful
generation, this makes it unpredictable which worker computer in the network
will be able to generate the next block.
For a block to be valid it must hash to a value less than the current target; this
means that each block indicates that work has been done generating it.
Under Bitcoin consensus algorithm the current target is the same
for all miners. Under MaskNetwork VPOW, the target is higher or
lower depending on the votes a miner address received from stake
holders. Basically miners can be up voted / down voted just like
content is and depending on a miner popularity, the target at which
the miner works is bigger / lower.
A bigger target means less work for a miner to find a solution. The target for a
miner that has no votes is called default mining target and corresponds to
the highest difficulty. To better understand how VPOW works, let's take a few
examples. Let’s suppose the default mining target is 1000 (mining targets are
usually much bigger numbers).
• A miner was not up voted. The has to find a nonce that after PX16 hashing
generates a number less than 1000.
• A miner was up voted by 5 addresses with a total power of 50. The miner has
to find a nonce that after PX16 hashing generates a number less than
50.000. Basically the miner will have to work on average 50 times less in order
to find a block than a miner who was not been voted at all.
• A miner was up voted by 10 addresses with a total power of 350 and down
voted by 3 addresses with a total power of 100. The miner has to find a nonce
that after PX16 hashing generates a number less than 250.000.
Any address holding at least 10 MSK can up vote / down vote miners. A vote
becomes active after ~200 blocks. Miner’s target levels are recalculated after
each block. Voting a miner implies a 0.1 MSK fee. The vote never expire but
it will be removed if the voter balance is less than 10 MSK.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!23

The voting power decreases according to the number of votes given to miners
by the formula :

P=B/N
P = vote power
B = voter address balance in MSK
N = number of miner’s votes
Both miners and those who voted for it are rewarded by the network after each
block. Miners reward pool is the largest. 30% of the daily reward pool goes to
the miners. Miners will share rewards with their voters. Only 75% of the reward
is kept by the miner. The rest goes to the voters.

Hashing algorithm
The hash algorithm is called Polymorphic X16 (PX16) and was developed by
Vlad Cristian back in 2016. The algorithm represents an improvement of the
X11 algorithm implemented by Dash and other networks.
The first difference from X11 is the number of hash functions used. In PX16,
16 hash functions are used to verify POW nonce instead of 11. This is the list of
used hash functions used
Blake512, BMW512, CubeHash512, ECHO512, Fugue512,
Groestl512, Hamsi512, JH512, Keccak512, Luffa512, SHAvite512,
SIMD512, Shaba512, Skein512, SHA256, SHA512
Another important difference is that the algorithm changes after each block,
hence the name polymorphic. More specifically, in X11 the order of hash
functions is the same. In PX16, the hash function is different depending on the
previous block.
For example if the last block hash is
000012cb4ff317be3cd200329ab87625af83108643197603238b6244f0ef
e175
the POW check will be made based on formula

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!24

Hamsi512 (Hamsi512 (Hamsi512 (Hamsi512 (JH512 (Keccak512
(CubeHash512 (……..( nonce ))))))…)))
Basically for each hexadecimal letter / number (there are 16 in total 0, 1, 2,
…..a,b,c,d,e,f) a different hash function is linked. Because block hashes are
unique, the exact hashing algorithm used changes after each block and
it’s also unique.

Why Variable Proof of Work / Polymorphic X16
Variable Proof of Work / Polymorphic X16 was developed in order to
overcome some significant drawbacks associated with previously used
cryptocurrency mining algorithms / consensus such as SHA256 (Bitcoin) or
Script (Litecoin). The biggest of these drawbacks was the fact that electronics
companies had developed specialist hardware, called ASICs, for mining coins
which used the SHA-256 and Scrypt mining algorithms. This had the effect of
making the networks more centralized – controlled by a small group of powerful
miners, whereas the original vision for cryptocurrency was for ordinary users to
be able to take part in securing the network and earning rewards through
mining.
By designing the PX16 algorithm to be well suited to use with general purposes
CPU processors and commonly used GPU graphics cards, and by cycling
through many different algorithms in a different order after each block, rather
than using a single algorithm, it makes it difficult for manufacturers to develop
ASICs for coins which use this algorithm. Although it is possible that ASICs will
eventually be produced, PX16 coins are expected to remain ASIC-resistant for
at least the short and medium term future.
The use of 16 different algorithms also increases the security of coins using this
method against brute force attacks. Brute force attacks against coins, such as
Bitcoin, which use other algorithms are not currently possible, but may
conceivably be possible at some point in the future.
Mining centralization reducing network security, reduces the number of people
with a stake in running the netwok who naturally become its advocates, and may
increase the likelihood of mined coins being instantly ‘dumped’ as businesses
need to cover costs and take profits whereas individuals may not have to.

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!25

Mining centralization is also serious problem because miners can not be held
accountable by shareholders. They 51% attack the network with no
shareholders consent.
The best example is Bitcoin block size debate where 100% is up to miners to
change the maximum block size and fork the network. Bitcoin holders are
completely ignored by miners. Under VPOW, that would not have been
possible.
Under the MaskNetwork algorithm (even if we talk about a POW consensus),
miners can be drastically penalized by shareholders. If they are down voted,
the difficulty they work on will explode and the number of blocks found will be
significantly lower. Also, the miner's revenues will be drastically reduced.
Since miners rely on hardware-intensive hardware (such as GPUs), a negative
vote on the part of shareholders may mean the death of miner’s business
due to the cost associated with maintaining equipment / income from mining.
Variable POW combined with PX16 significantly reduces the
chances of mining centralisation / miners’s influence on the
network while preserving the security of a POW consensus.

Mining

MASKNETWORK WHITE PAPER

!26

