Whitepaper
DATA INTEGRITY FOR SUPPLY CHAIN OPERATIONS,
POWERED BY BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY
modum.io sensor devices record environmental conditions while
physical products are in transit. When a change in ownership
occurs, the collected data is checked against a specific smart contract in the blockchain. This contract validates that the transaction
meets all of the standards set out by the sender, their clients, or the
regulator and triggers various actions: notifications to sender and
receiver, release of goods, payment, etc.

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

Copyright 2017 modum.io AG
Whitepaper V. 1.0

Contents
Blockchain for supply chains				

3

Strategy: Pharma first						
Strategy: Blockchain agnosticism				

3
3

Regulatory driven first application			

4

EU GDP regulation recently changed				
An efficient solution to meet regulations			

4
5

How it works							6
USPs of the modum system					

6

Technical details of the modum system		

7

Compliance-as-service business model 		

10

Only the beginning for modum.io			

10

First series								7
Shipment process							8
modum temperature loggers					9
Security concept				
			
9

For the last mile							10
Experienced team							11

Token Sale							12
Token economics							12
Milestones								
13
Voting principle and profit share process			
14
Early investor incentives 						14
Bug Bounty Program 						
15
Buying procedure							
15
Minting of MOD tokens						
15

Market segmentation and go to market		

16

From pilots to market entry				

17

Producer to wholesaler						16
Wholesaler distribution						16
Mail-order pharmacies						16
Pilot 1.0								17
Pilot 2.0								17
Paid Pilot 3.0 with 3PL and mail-order pharmacy		
18
Business and pricing strategy based on pilots			
19
Current status and go-to-market strategy			
19
 
www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

2

Blockchain for supply chain
“Blockchain for supply chains” has become a prominent, and very promising application scenario for blockchains, enabling transparency between
untrusted partners and traceability throughout production processes.
The advantage of using blockchain technology in the supply chain is that it
provides an open, immutable, global, online ledger for transactions, which
includes a verification mechanism.
Recently, various start-ups (Chronicled, Everledger, Skuchain, Blockverify,
ubirch, Provenance etc.) and large corporate players (IBM, Microsoft,
Walmart, Maersk, BHP Billiton, etc.) have begun to run proof-of-concept
studies, committing significant R&D resources to building new platforms
and fostering international collaborations.

Strategy: Pharma first

In mid 2016, when modum.io began operations, only a few working blockchain infrastructures were available. modum.io opted to use blockchains
with proven industry applications. This decision allows the modum team
to focus on the development of the business case and to be able to stay
relatively neutral or “agnostic” with respect to the growing portfolio of
blockchain solutions.
modum.io chose the pharma industry as its first business case because
this sector requires highly automated and cost-effective logistics solutions, which guarantee data integrity. As the pharma industry has one
of the highest standards for product safety, security, and stability, it is
the ideal candidate to act as a “blockchain-enabler”; having successfully
proven a viable blockchain solution with the highest requirements, scaling
into other verticals is feasible.

Strategy: Blockchain
agnosticism

The general maturity of the Ethereum network and development stage
of Solidity validated modum.io’s choice to use Ethereum for its pilots or
proof-of-concepts. While Ethereum remains one of the most cutting-edge
blockchains with great developer and commercial interest, modum.io
will stay open to other options for blockchain use in this rapidly changing
market.
In particular, requirements from our clients for permissioned blockchains
or systems with low or no transaction fees call for substantial flexibility and resources from modum.io in order to truly become and remain
blockchain agnostic. From a risk-perspective, social and technical uncertainties of blockchain infrastructures (governance, scalability, interoperability), make blockchain agnosticism an essential foundation of modum’s
business strategy in order to be able to provide the best infrastructure to
every customer.

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

3

Regulatory driven first application
EU GDP regulation recently changed
The first product of modum.io offers an efficient system to comply with
recently tightened regulatory requirements for the transport of medicinal
products for human use in the European Union. Chapter nine of the Good
Distribution Practice regulation (GDP 2013/C 343/01) now requires proof
that shipped medicinal products have not been exposed to conditions
(particularly temperature) that may have compromised their quality.1
National regulatory bodies enforce GDP regulations on the over 10,000
wholesale distribution authorization holders in the EU to ensure drug
safety, whereby the consequence of non-compliance can lead to licenses
being revoked.2 It is likely that regulation in the United States (draft chapter 1083: “Good Distribution Practice”) will follow in a similar direction.3
To date, pharmaceutical companies meet requirements via expensive,
temperature-stabilized trucks and containers from third-party logistics
providers (3PLs). For the majority of medicines (which are not temperature sensitive) this is excessive from a cost and regulatory perspective.

Figure 1: GDP 2013/C 343/01) Regulation.

1. https://ec.europa.eu/health//sites/health/files/files/eudralex/vol-1/2013_c343_01/2013_c343_01_en.pdf
2. estimate based on the list of WDA holders in Germany: https://www.pharmnet-bund.de/static/.content/.galleries/downloads/de/am-grosshaendler-namen-stand-201706.pdf
3. http://www.usp.org/sites/default/files/usp_pdf/EN/USPNF/revisions/c1083.pdf

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

4

An efficient solution to meet regulations
modum.io offers a more efficient supply chain solution, which enables
companies to prove compliance with GDP regulations using blockchain
and Internet-of-Things (IoT) technology. The modum solution allows significant cost savings for the distribution of medicinal products that do not
require active cooling. The modum solution is:

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

1.	
	

Designed for pharma standards with a calibrated tempera-		
ture sensor.

2.	

Automated to a high degree and fully wireless.

3.	
	

Easily integrated with existing customer systems, capable of 		
being rolled out painlessly, with no gateways.

4.	
	
	

Able to provide a high level of data integrity, authenticity, 		
independent verification, auditability, security, and flexible 		
data ownership.

5.	

A low-cost solution that allows mass use.

5

How it works
USPs of the modum system

Figure 2: Components of the modum system: dashboard, temperature loggers, and mobile application

modum.io has developed a system with the above design focus, leading
to the following features and USPs:
Before shipment occurs, the temperature logger ID, shipment ID, and
alarm criteria are fixed within a shipment-specific smart contract. Upon
receipt, this smart contract will allow receivers to check that regulations
have been met. The evaluation criteria (in this case temperature ranges),
cannot be changed retroactively. During the shipment, the temperature
is monitored, whereby the data is stored in the internal flash memory of
the logger. Using BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy) the shipment does not need
to be opened in order to perform the checks. At each change of ownership, data authenticity is certified by the smart contract. The results of the
evaluation are immutably stored in a blockchain as a proof-of-existence.
Depending on the outcome, the receiver and sender are notified immediately, allowing them to release the product or arrange further corrective
and preventative actions. Customers do not need to install additional
hardware to use the system, downloading a mobile application is sufficient.
For the customer, the modum system provides:

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

1. 	
	
	

A passive solution that includes a monitoring service with no
special packaging required, without the need for expensive,
active-temperature controlled logistic services.

2. 	
	

The proof required by GDP regulations that medical products 		
have not been compromised on shipment level.

6

Technical details of the modum system
First series
The following describes the state and components of the first series of the
modum system planned for production in Q4/2017.
The modum system is designed with a clear design focus on automation
and security. It consists of multiple hardware and software components.
•	

A pharma-qualified temperature logger, which monitors the temperature during the transport. It communicates wirelessly to a mobile 		
application via BLE (Bluetooth Low Energy), alternatively, via NFC 		
(Near Field Communication).

•	

The dashboard serves for preparation (e.g. setting alarm criteria) and 	
tracking of shipments, data visualization and analytics, and can be 	
used to perform statistical calculations on historical data, e.g. com-	
pare different shipments, with export functionality.

•	

The mobile application can be used to pair the temperature log-		
gers with the respective shipments, initialize shipments and visualize
the recorded data.

•	

The front end (dashboard, temperature logger and mobile application) communicate with back-end’s HTTPS 	server via RestAPI/JSON.

•	

The back end is for data retrieval, evaluation, verification and 	
storage. It also runs an Ethereum full node executing the respective 	
smart contract code.

BACK END

FRONT END
SERVER

PostgreSQL
DB Instance

HTTPS
Server

Rest API,
JSON

Dashboard

JSON
RPC
Near Field
Communication

Smart
Contract

Ethereum
Network

Ethereum
Node

Bluetooth
Low Energy
Mobile
Application

Temperature
Logger

Figure 3: Front end and back end of the modum system

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

7

Shipment process

Users will first set the temperature ranges (alarm criteria), measurement
intervals etc. using the dashboard. During the packing process, the operator scans the shipment information (e.g. tracking number), receives the
serial number of the temperature logger and places it in the corresponding package. This process can be accelerated in an industrial setting, using
NFC. In the back-end, a shipment-specific smart contract (already containing specific shipment parameters such as temperature range) is called.
The temperature measurement starts either immediately or after a predefined time. During transport, the logger can be queried for shipment,
current, and recent temperature data. Upon receipt, BLE can be used to
retrieve the shipment data, even without opening the package.
Compliance is checked in multiple stages and on multiple levels:
1.	
	
2.	
	
	
3.	
	
	
	

The logger itself signals occurrences of deviations to the operator 	
via its three LEDs.
The smartphone application displays data and deviations
submitted by the logger in a graphical way, even when the phone
is not connected to the internet.
Through the back-end the data is validated for authenticity and 	
compliance by the shipment-specific smart contract, without the 	
possibility of any party to interfere - whereby all information re-	
quired for validation is publically accessible.

For all outcomes, the smart contract stores the measurement hash, a yes/
no outcome with respect to the pre-set temperature range and a pointer
to the actual measurement data (e.g. the PostgreSQL or a customer database) in the blockchain as proof-of-existence. If a deviation has occurred,
the sender is notified and can review the corresponding measurement
and shipment data.

Figure 4: Shipment process of the modum system

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

8

modum temperature loggers
The specifications of the modum temperature logger (first series) can be found below:
Device Type

modum.io temperature logger TAG1

External Dimensions (LxWxH)

100 mm x 40 mm x 10 mm

External Display

3 LEDS: Active/Measuring/Warning

Weight

60 g

Warehouse Conditions (stand-by mode)

0 °C to +30 °C

Operating Temperature Range

-10 °C to +70 °C, arbitrary temperature ranges, alerts

Measurement Interval

1 second to 1 week (pre-deﬁned), start after time delay

Temperature Accuracy (calibrated)

±0.45 °C between -40 °C to +70 °C

Temperature calibration valid for

1.5 years

Accelerometer

Range: ±2g – 16g, free fall and motion detection

Memory (RAM)

30 KB

Storage for Measuring Points

50,000 measurements

Protection Class

IP65

Battery Life

6 weeks (active), 1 year (passive, on-shelf)

Reactivation

Possible

Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE)

Bluetooth 5 w/ secure connections

Bluetooth Features

BLE API on BLE GATT layer updating ﬁrmware

NFC (Near Field Communication)

For fast initialization / pairing (automation)

Certiﬁcations

CE, Temperature calibration, GMP, GAMP5

Speciﬁca(ons	  subject	  to	  change	  

Table 1: Technical specifications of the modum temperature logger

Figure 5: Rendering of the upcoming series of modum temperature loggers

Security concept

The modum temperature loggers must mitigate various risk- and attack scenarios.4 With potentially thousands of loggers in circulation there is a credible risk
that the hardware is subjected to physical disassembly, tampering, or manipulation of its firmware and flash memory. The housing itself is tamper-resistant
and water-proof. All components with a serial number (e.g. temperature sensor,
System-on-a-Chip) are registered in the authorized device database to identify
forged, tampered-with, and stolen loggers. The cryptographic co-processor
shields its secret keys (it uses to create digital signatures of all measurements,
timestamps, etc.) from decapping, probing, and fault attacks. The corresponding
public key of every logger is used by the system to guarantee end-to-end data
authenticity. Smart contracts used in the modum system are open source and
can be verified by anyone.5
Furthermore, the modum system provides customers with multiple levels of access control and permits only authorized users of sender- and receiver company
to interact with the temperature loggers.

4. See the upcoming security whitepaper at https://modum.io/modum_securitywhitepaper.pdf
5. https://github.com/modum-io/smartcontract/blob/master/TemperatureMeasurementA2.sol

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

9

Compliance-as-service business model
For the last mile

During modum.io’s extensive proof-of-concept phase, pilot projects with
several customers have determined that the modum solution delivered
its highest value as a last-mile logistics service in the pharma supply chain.
As such, modum.io will offer its solution in a “pay-per-shipment” model.
The last mile of the pharma supply chain begins when finished products
leave the pharmaceutical production facility and ends when they arrive
at the pharmacy or hospital to be administered to the patient. Between
producer and pharmacy, the products typically move through a pharmaceutical wholesaler.6 In the EU, around 200 million of these shipments
occur each year.7

Only the beginning for modum.io
Our goal is to utilize the potential of a blockchain-based back-end for
supply chains. Most logistics companies have small margins and high
competition and therefore little possibilities to innovate if it does not save
costs – therefore we focus on providing significant cost reductions for our
customers in the pharma supply chain.
Once the blockchain is a proven, cost-saving part of a logistics supply
chain, additional use cases will be possible with almost no incremental
costs for our customers. Besides the obvious ones as trade finance, trade
documents and determination of legal handover, we are able to deliver
unique products by adding additional environmental sensors to our hardware. For example, motion sensors to detect whether fragile goods were
handled correctly, light detectors to immutably prove whether a parcel

Figure 6: The modum system overview

6. ‘Nearly three-quarters of all medicinal […] are distributed through pharmaceutical full-line wholesalers.’ http://www.girp.eu/files/GIRP-IPF%20Study%202016.pdf
7. ‘Number of minimum daily Wholesaler deliveries to Pharmacies across the EU27’ multiplied by ‘Number of retail and hospital pharmacies and dispensing doctors’ multiplied by working days.
http://eprints.lse.ac.uk/51051/1/Kanavos_pharmaceutical_distribution_chain_2007.pdf
http://www.girp.eu/files/GIRP-IPF%20Study%202016.pdf

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

10

was opened during its journey, and secure such an event with insurance
policies. Furthermore, humidity sensors to monitor the condition of raw
materials like salts for the pharmaceutical sector or hay for the transport
of specialized horse food. Those are just some of the use cases which
were already discussed with pilot and potential customers. Certainly,
many more use case, which have not been considered will follow.
By extrapolating some of the novel technologies described in this whitepaper we expect that Smart Logistics (or Supply Chain 4.0), will yield a role
reversal between the “object to be transported” and “carrier”: A “selfdependent shipment” could manage itself, i.e. autonomously optimize
for revenue, directly pay its fees to different service providers and cost
centers.

Experienced team

The modum team believes that technology is the answer to the world’s
most urgent problems. Our highly capable team combines a breadth of
competency and experience to serve our clientele and deliver a highquality solution.
•	

Malik El Bay, has experience in building products in the fast-paced
startup environment. With two start-ups under his belt, he leads the
team and strategic growth of modum.io.

•	

Dr. Stefan Weber, a physicist with industry and start-up experience. He
manages hardware development and compliance.

•	

Sacha Uhlmann has a background in peer-to-peer systems and quality
assurance. He leads the system development and is the lead architect of
modum.

•	

Simon Dössegger, a mechanical engineer who already exited his last
start-up creating autonomous flying drones to GoPro. He leads the product strategy and business development.

•	

Andreas Knecht, is a lead engineer and IoT guru. He is responsible for
the hardware and firmware development.

•	

Marc Heimgartner, Tim Strasser, Guilherme Sperb Machado,
Moritz Schneider and Sebastian Stephan are the core developers of
the modum system.

•	

Michael Taylor and Ozan Polat spearhead the marketing and
communications team. They bring marketing experience from major
tech- and innovative startup environments.

•	

Dr. Thomas Bocek is the resident blockchain expert, with a PhD in
decentralized and peer-to-peer systems.

•	

Marc Degen, a blockchain investor, guides the modum.io team with
deep digitalization knowledge.

•	

Werner Spörri, chairman and former investment banker, contributes
valuable financial and legal direction.

•	

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

Pascal Degen, currently engaged as Head of Sterile Packaging at Novar-

11

tis, brings in-depth manufacturing knowledge from within the pharma
sector.
•	

Michel Schaer, founded a Swiss-based pharmaceutical distributor and
provides insight regarding pharma wholesale and distribution.

Additionally, the modum.io team regularly consults with our advisors:
•	

Prof. Dr. Burkhard Stiller (Communications Chair, University of Zurich)
whose main research interests are in blockchain, IP-based networks,
cloud and grid services, and the economics of IP services.

•	

Prof. Dr. Erik Hofmann (Director of the Chair of Logistics Management,
University of St. Gallen) who wrote the book Supply Chain Finance and
Blockchain Technology.

•	

MLaw Benedikt Schuppli, RA, is a legal counsel who works with the
Swiss Fintech company Lykke Corp, which is building a global marketplace based on blockchain technology.

•	

Dr. Ing. Heinrich Zetlmayer (Member of the Board, Lykke Corp) is a
Board Member at Lykke Corp and advises on the business aspects of the
token sale, being a former IBM top executive in charge of big-scale supply chain implementation programs.

Furthermore, we are working together with external experts, specialists in
embedded systems and GDP-compliant transport validation implementations.

Token Sale

Token Economics

modum.io is a company with a real product, commercial traction, and
with major partnerships. Its token sale has been carefully crafted to relate
to the reliability of our service offering. The primary goal of the token sale
is to establish mechanisms for modum.io to efficiently execute its vision:
‘to improve supply chain operations with emerging technology’ and to
align the interest of token holders with the interests of the team. Therefore Lykke Corp. was chosen to advise on the token sale and all related
activities.

The modum token (MOD) is a profit share token with voting and profit
participation rights. The maximum total supply is 30 million tokens. 20.1
million are offered in the token sale, 0.9 are used to cover the token sale
costs and for the bug bounty program, and 9 million MOD are reserved
for modum.io, to be vested based on major milestones. Token holders will
vote to decide if the milestones are met and release the locked tokens.
Locked tokens do not have profit share nor voting rights. Ethereum ERC20
technology was used to build the MOD token. The code of the smart
contract and the tokensales application is open source8 and has been
reviewed by Lykke Corp and Consecom (a Swiss IT Security consultancy).

8. visit: http://github.com/modum-io

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

12

Figure 7: Token economics breakdown

Milestones

The funds collected in the token sale are used to meet predefined
milestones in our product roadmap as elaborated below. The mentioned
dates are “earliest dates possible” and no voting will take place before
the dates mentioned. The milestones provide today’s view of the market
needs. Due to the fast-evolving nature of the blockchain ecosystem those
milestones are indicative, i.e. if a milestone needs to be changed, prior
acceptance of the change is required, therefore an additional voting is
conducted. In case of a negative voting, modum.io can reinitiate the voting process earliest 90 days after the end of a prior voting period, and no
milestones can be skipped by modum.io. We commit to these milestones
regardless of the outcome of the token sales and total funds collected.
Milestone 1 – expected earliest October 22nd, 2017:
The objective is to ensure a proper minting and token distribution process
to release upon positive voting 900,000 tokens (3% of the maximum MOD
supply) to a wallet controlled by modum.io. The distribution is conducted
using the first in first out principle. All contributions are
consolidated into one list. The timestamp per block is used to define the
conversion rate to USD, which is then used to define the conversion rate
to MOD tokens. One contribution might be in multiple bonus tiers. This
process is supervised by our advisor Lykke Corp. The released tokens are
used for our advisors, many helping hands in the making of this tokensale
and the bug bounty program.
Milestone 2 – expected earliest Q1/2018:
Objective is to ensure the go-to-market of our first product line including
the mass production of our dedicated sensor device and the product ecosystem (application, validation & qualification). At least two environmental sensors are integrated into the hardware platform (temperature and
motion) and besides Ethereum at least one of the following blockchains:
IOTA, NEO, Fabric, ETC or Rootstock, is supported as blockchain back-end.
3 million tokens are upon positive voting released to a wallet controlled
by modum.io.

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

13

Milestone 3 – expected earliest Q1/2019:
Objective is to deliver the next sensor generation with real-time interaction
(via current or emerging network technologies, like LoRaWAN). At least one
additional environmental sensor is integrated (light or humidity) and any
two additional blockchain back-ends of the following: IOTA, NEO, Fabric,
ETC, Rootstock, Waves, Tezos, EOS or Cosmos, are supported. 3 million tokens are upon positive voting released to a wallet controlled by modum.io.
Milestone 4 – expected earliest Q1/2020:
Objective is to deliver the next sensor generation with a real-time, on-chip
blockchain node. An additional environmental sensors (e.g. light or humidity) is integrated and the complete modum software is delivered in a
fully decentralized architecture. 3 million tokens are upon positive voting
released to a wallet controlled by modum.io.

Figure 8: Roadmap and first milestones

Voting & profit sharing

With the publishing of the annual report modum.io can claim whether or
not the present milestone was achieved. With the publishing of the report
the start date of the voting period is set. The voting period lasts for two
weeks. Every MOD token in circulation has one vote. Locked tokens cannot vote. The default vote is void. The quorum is defined by the number
of executed votes within the predefined timeline. A simple majority is
needed to decide if the milestone was met. If the milestone was met, the
defined number of tokens are released to the modum.io wallet.
The board of modum.io decides and declares the amount of dividends
when there is a profit. A payment equivalent to this amount is converted
to Ether and sent to the modum smart contract. The modum smart
contract evaluates the current holdings and distributes the profits to the
token holders in Ether. The voting and profit share smart contract is open
source

Early investor incentives

The token pre-sale will be conducted by invitation only. The pre-sale starts
in August and comes with a 50% discount on the price of 1 USD per MOD
token. The number of tokens sold at 50% discount is hard capped at 2.1
million tokens.
The public token sale starts on 1 September. The first 6 million MOD
tokens are sold with a discount of 30% on the price of 1 USD per MOD
token. The following 6 million are sold with a discount of 15%. The last 6
million are not discounted and sold for 1 USD per MOD token. Oversubscriptions of a bonus tier get allocated to the following tier. The estimated
current bonus tier is visible on the token website. The displayed amount
may change due to changing exchange rates and is therefore indicative.
Final bonus tier and token allocation is done post transaction. Oversubscriptions of the whole token sale are returned to the investors after the
closing of the token sales. (Refund addresses are requested in the token
sale app.)

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

14

Bug Bounty Program

Modum.io is deeply engaged with the developer community and has
maintained a ‘code is law’ value system while developing its platform.
With every major platform release modum.io will open a new phase of its
“Bug Bounty Program”. Every developer that submits a bug will receive a
certain number of points based on the severity of the bug. The severity is
calculated according to the OWASP risk rating model based on impact and
likelihood.
In the first phase the smart contract of our token sale will be the first item
to be checked by the community under the Bug Bounty Program. 3% of
the total tokens issued will be held for the bounty program, with 25,000
tokens available for participants who find bugs in the token sale smart
contract.

IMPACT

OVERALL RISK SEVERITY
High

Medium

High

High

Medium

Low

Medium

Medium

Low

Note

Low

Low

High

Medium

Low

LIKELIHOOD

Buying procedure

Minting of MOD tokens

9. visit: http://github.com/modum-io

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

To buy MOD tokens, please register on token.modum.io with your email
and confirm the Terms of Token Sale. By confirming the Terms you are
indicating, among other things, that you are not a resident of a country
whose laws and regulations conflict with the purchase of MOD token
and/or the participation in the token sale. You will be asked confirm that
you are not a resident of the United States or Singapore or resident of a
country where American embargoes and sanctions are in force, namely
Iran, North Korea, Syria, Sudan, or Cuba. For further details please consult
the Terms of Token Sale. After the confirmation of your email address,
you will create your wallet for MOD tokens, upload a UTC/JSON Keystore,
or the receiving address is entered manually. In the next step the payback addresses for possible oversubscription payments can be added
and finally a personal BTC and ETH address is generated to deposit the
investment amount. An email is sent upon successful confirmation of
your payment. The conversion rate to USD is determined at the time of
confirmation by official BTC/USD and ETH/USD exchange rates, which are
provided by our advisor Lykke. The conversion to modum tokens is done
post token sale. Therefore the exact number of tokens distributed per
investor is communicated at the time of distribution of the modum token.
The MOD tokens are distributed latest 30 days after the token sale is
closed. The code for the creation of the tokens is open source9. The
proper distribution is also the first milestone to be met. All investments
are allocated by their confirmation time to the respective bonus tiers.
Oversubscriptions of a bonus tier get allocated to the next following tier.
At every time, the estimated current bonus tier is visible on the token
website. Oversubscriptions of the whole token sale are returned to the investors. Upon sign-off of the distribution, every investor receives an email
with their binding number of modum tokens they receive and the date
and time of distribution to their token sale wallet. For more informtion on
regulatory and legal aspects, see the Token Terms of Sale Document.

15

Market segmentation & go to market
Last mile logistics are typically separated into two stages: From producer
to wholesaler and from wholesaler to doctors, hospitals and pharmacies.
However, mail-order pharmacies now open up a third stage skipping the
pharmacy and are directly delivering to the patient.

Producer to wholesaler

Wholesaler distribution

Mail-order pharmacies

Approximately 10% of the 200 million annual shipments occur between
pharma producers and wholesalers. These deliveries primarily consist of
palettes containing finished products. The bulk of modum.io’s potential
customers are small and medium-sized enterprise (SME) pharma producers, with an average annual volume of 1,000 to 10,000 shipments.
90% of the total shipping volume is conducted from a wholesaler to hospitals, doctors, and pharmacies. Wholesalers usually have their own fleet of
vehicles and outsource up to half of the shipments to third-party logistics
service providers. There are about 750 wholesalers in the EU serving in
total more than 180,000 pharmacies and dispensing doctors.10

Mail-order pharmacies are a special case in last-mile logistics – they deliver
medicines directly to the end consumer, adding up to 20 million shipments
per year within the EU. Their segment is growing quickly, currently 2% of
total market revenues11 (the average e-commerce revenue proportion
across industries is approximately 8% and growing).12 The leading mail-order pharmacy in Europe, DocMorris, has 2.5 million clients and an annual
turnover exceeding CHF 350 million.13

Figure 9: Distribution of medical products overview: Of the 200 million pharmaceutical shipments occuring in the EU each year, 10% occur
between producer and distributor and 90% occur between distributor and dispenser. Indicating that the bulk of shipments exist in the last
mile between distributor and Pharmacies/Hospitals/Doctors.
10. http://www.girp.eu/files/GIRP-IPF%20Study%202016.pdf
11. http://www.apotheke-adhoc.de/nachrichten/apothekenpraxis/nachricht-detail-apothekenpraxis/versandapotheken-legen-um-30-prozent-zu/?L=1?t=1
12. https://www.emarketer.com/Article/Worldwide-Retail-Ecommerce-Sales-Will-Reach-1915-Trillion-This-Year/1014369
13. https://www.docmorris.de/service/unternehmen/presse/pressemitteilungen/2016/docmorris-vorreiter-beim-faelschungsschutz

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

16

Mail-order pharmacies must comply with GDP regulations too: “It is in the
responsibility of the sending pharmacy to demonstrate that the medicines
have not been exposed to conditions that may compromise their quality”.
More explicitly, the “sender must check the transport conditions for suitability in each case. Compliance, especially temperature, needs to be verified and documented regularly.”14

From pilots to market entry
Since its founding in 2016, modum.io has conducted several pilots in each
of the last-mile segments in order to receive customer- and user input for
developing the system, test different go-to-market strategies, and explore
business and pricing models.
For the pilots, modum.io used an off-the-shelf temperature logging device,
the TI sensor tag, and developed its own custom firmware to interface with
the modum system.15

Pilot 1.0

The first pilot was conducted in Switzerland in 2016, monitoring shipments
from a SME pharma producer to a wholesaler.
Over six weeks, several temperature loggers recorded 10,000 data points
and were able to successfully track the temperature of most shipments.
The collected feedback indicated necessary improvements in the following
areas:
1.	
Connectivity of the temperature logger with the mobile applica	
	
tion should be quicker.
2.	
Data transfer speed should be improved.
3.	
A dashboard for data analysis should be created.
The main advantages for SME pharma producers to use the modum system is the wider choice to find a suitable logistic partner and ensure compliance on a shipment level.

Figure 10: Pilot 1
14. https://www.ag.ch/media/kanton_aargau/dgs/dokumente_4/gesundheit_1/gesundheitsversorgung/heilmittel/regeln_versandhandel_2013.pdf
15. http://www.ti.com/ww/en/wireless_connectivity/sensortag2015/index.html?INTC=SensorTag&HQS=sensortag-pr

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

17

Pilot 2.0

In its second pilot, modum.io monitored shipments between a wholesaler
and several clinics and pharmacies whereby shipment volumes were
scaled up by one order of magnitude.
For this pilot, the temperature logger’s connectivity and data transfer
speed were improved and a dashboard for quality assurance and customer service departments of the wholesalers was introduced and tested. To
improve the the responsiveness of the read-out process of temperature
data was an important learning from pilot 2.0.
Additionally, modum.io monitored a cross-border shipment to validate
the technology internationally and between continents.

Paid Pilot 3.0 with 3PL &
mail-order pharmacy

A key takeaway from earlier pilots and the market studies was that a direct integration in the processes of a third-party logistics provider already
serving high shipping volumes would greatly help modum.io scale because pick-up and hand-over would be handled by the same company.
By using a third-party logistics provider, the shipment process remains
the same for the sender: insert the loggers into the respective shipment
and transfer the shipment to the 3PL provider. Prior to delivery to the
pharmacy or hospital, the 3PL driver will use their proprietary scanning
device to check compliance. He can then either release the shipment to
the owner, or take corrective and preventive actions in case of any deviations.

Figure 11: Pilot 2

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

18

During the third, paid pilot with the parcel-service market leader in
Switzerland, modum.io aimed to prove the suitability for mass use of the
modum system. Two phases were conducted: in the first phase, modum
implemented and stabilized customer processes; in the second phase,
modum.io quantified additional efforts and the duration of the temperature data read-out process. The customer’s objective for this pilot was to
achieve 95% of all readouts within 30 seconds. modum.io managed an
average readout of only eight seconds for 100% of the shipments. In the
pilot wrap-up meeting, suitability of the modum system for mass use was
confirmed and the client recommended integration of the modum system
into the offering of the 3PL.

Business & Pricing Strategy

By using the modum system, depending on market segment and volume,
costs per shipment can be reduced by up to 60%. With respect to the 200
million shipments of pharmaceutical products in the EU, a widespread
adoption of the modum system or competing services has the potential
to reduce industry-wide expenses by approximately 3 billion USD.
The modum.io solution is offered in an easy “pay-per-shipment” model.
It has been shown in the market studies and pilots that customers would
pay up to 10 USD per shipment. When compared with the use of environmentally-controlled transport solutions, the modum system still significantly reduces overall shipping costs plus further cost reductions if the
potential for automation, that comes with the modum system, is taken
into account.

Current status

Currently, the modum system is being integrated into the system of the
leading last-mile logistics service provider in Switzerland. modum.io is
planning to finalize this integration in Q4/2017, using the first series of
proprietary temperature loggers. Clients from the wholesaler and mail-order pharmacy segment are lined up. Upon successful completion, official
market entry in Switzerland will begin in Q1/2018. Once integration has
been established within our first client site, the logistics service provider
can approach the SME pharma segment to offer the additional service.
Furthermore, modum.io is in contact with significant customers from
within the pharma distribution vertical in the UK, France, Germany,
Turkey, and Vietnam.

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

19

www. modum.io
Technoparkstrasse 1
CH - 8005 Zurich
info@modum.io

20

