Table of Contents
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0

Abstract
Manifesto
Problem Overview
Product Overview
4.1 BitcoinRush.io
4.2 Peerbet.org
4.3 Bit777.com
5.0 ICO Overview
6.0 Exchanges
7.0 Benefits
8.0 Economics: Monster Byte B2C Revenue Model
5.1 Sportsbook
5.2 Casino Edge
5.3 Peerbet
9.0 Economics: Monster Byte B2B Revenue Model
10.0 Competitive Analysis
12.0 Marketing Plan
12.0 Developmental Roadmap
13.0 ICO Fund Allocation
14.0 Conclusion

1.0 Abstract
Monster Byte Inc. is a technology company which owns a suite of long-standing and
profitable Cryptocurrency Gambling websites, all of which have been custom-built
with proprietary technology owned by Monster Byte Inc.
Our company is seeking expansion and revenue growth by increased marketing and
product development while also entering into wholesale B2B operations via
white-labeling all existing software for resale and licensing purposes.
Since its inception, Monster Byte Inc. has been on a mission to become the world’s
premier destination for cryptocurrency gamblers to not only wager on sports, but
also bet on casino games like Blackjack, Roulette, and Baccarat. We have a distinct
advantage over our competitors as we can cater towards both the sports betting
and casino game demographic. Further, our B2C portals are all well-established and
have a great reputation within the bitcoin gaming community.

2.0 Manifesto
Our mission is to leverage the powerful nature of cryptocurrencies (such as Bitcoin)
as the perfect medium for a fast, safe, and fun gaming chip which is rapidly gaining
mainstream acceptance within the online gambling community. We aim for
complete customer satisfaction by offering a fair, safe, and superior customer
experience.

3.0 Problem Overview
Various problems affect traditional online gaming sites, affecting both operators and
players, Monster Byte is well positioned to address these needs in the industry.
Issues affecting operators: ​The principal issue affecting online gaming operators is
fraud. Whether it’s a credit card scammer attempting to play with others money, or
a player attempting a chargeback after losing their deposit, traditional fiat gaming
sites leave room for fraudulent activity by its users. Additionally, most banks and
internet financial institutions (such as PayPal) are weary of supporting gaming
websites.

Monster Byte’s solution:​ Through the use of cryptocurrencies, the risk of
chargebacks is completely eliminated. Cryptocurrencies also eliminate the need of
using third party financial partners to handle transfers of funds.
1

Issues affecting players: ​The issues affecting players are more diverse than those
affecting the operator. They include the following:
●

Speed of deposits and withdrawals: Players at traditional fiat gaming
websites need to wait for their bank wire (if they are not using a credit card)
to get to the sites in-game wallet before being able to play. Regardless of
their deposit method, the player must wait several days to receive their
withdrawal if they decide to stop playing and cash-out.

●

High House Edge and “Stacked Decks”: While online gaming websites have
much lower house edges relative to that of physical casinos, the return to the
player is still low considering online establishments do not have nearly the
overhead that physical casinos have. Most online games have a house edge
around ~5%. On top of that, it is nearly impossible for players to tell if they
were cheated or simply had terrible luck after an unlikely loss.

●

Lack of privacy: If a player does not want their spouse to know they are
wagering, it is difficult to remain discreet when their credit/bank statements
would show that they made a deposit, or received a payment from a gaming
site.

Monster Byte’s solution:​ Monster Byte is prepared to meet player needs where its
fiat counterparts have failed.
●

Cryptocurrency deposits are nearly instant, and withdrawals are handled
immediately.

●

Monster Byte offers games with as low as a 0% house edge, as well as a dice
game with a flat 1% house edge. Players get a lot more bang for buck.
Further, all games built by Monster Byte are built with using the Provably Fair
paradigm.
○ At a high level, Provably Fair Shuffling is a technique that Monster Byte
leverages which allows the user to reshuffle the deck before it is dealt.
The system first shuffles the deck once, and then presents the user
with a hash of the the shuffled deck before any wagers are made.
Then, whenever the user places a wager, he can optionally provide a
client_seed. The system then uses the client_seed provided to
reshuffle the deck in a deterministic way. At the end of the wager the
software reveals the initial shuffle, which allows the user to verify that
the system presented them with a valid hash, and also reshuffled the
deck in the correct way. Since there is no way of the system to know
2

the value of the client_seed until the moment the hand was dealt,
there is no way to manipulate the outcome of the shuffle of the deck.

Example of Provably Fair Verification

●

Finally, the ability to play without having to show forms of identification, and
not having your record of deposits/withdrawals appearing on a monthly
statement ensure that players privacy is respected.

4.0 Product Overview
4.1 BitcoinRush.io

3

Founded in 2013, BitcoinRush.io (formerly known as CasinoBitco.in) was the first
Bitcoin Sportsbook to offer Provably Fair Bitcoin Casino Games, starting with
Blackjack. Overtime, based on player feedback and demand, we have been able to
expand and enhance these offerings. No download is required, and all games are
available for free across all browser types and mobile devices. BitcoinRush.io is a
credible and established leader in the Bitcoin Gambling space.
Generally speaking there are three main sets of products on BitcoinRush.io, the
Sportsbook, Casino, and Peer to Peer Games.
Sportsbook
● Since 2013, we have handled almost 17,000 bitcoin worth of wagers
(~$45MM US at time of authoring) within the sportsbook.
● BitcoinRush.io supports over 24 different wagering markets, from US Football
all the way down to exotics like Auto Racing.
● Spreads, Moneylines, Totals, Parlays, Halftime, and Asian Markets offered.
● Competitive leaderboard system based on volume of bettors.

Provably Fair Casino
● Since inception, users have wagered 18,000 bitcoin (~$50MM US at time of
authoring) in our casino.
● BitcoinRush.io utilizes a Provably Fair system with its Casino games.
● Games Provided
○ Blackjack
○ Roulette
○ Hi-Lo
4

○
○

Baccarat
Video Poker

Peer to Peer Games
● Bitcoin Rush is a Peer to peer multiplayer game which offers a new refreshing
way to bet BTC, all head to head.
● Super Bowl and March Madness Squares Contests
4.2 Peerbet

4.5.1 Dice
Bitcoin dice games are definitely the most well-known Bitcoin powered
casino game accessible online. Bitcoin dice allows players to enter the
game with provable odds on their rolls, decide their own risk, all while
the house takes just a 1% edge, the lowest of any gambling game
online.
4.5.2 Wheel
The Betting Wheel on PeerBet offers a new way of gambling but
without the usual house edge. On this wheel based game users will
find the wheel is divided up into different segments, and the aim of the
game is to predict which segment of the wheel is going to spin in
opposite the winning pointer. Users can choose to place a bet on any
of the segments or by the laying of those bets, and when doing the
latter then if the player loses you will win their stake amount, however
if that player correctly predicts the segment of the wheel that is spun
in and wins then you need to pay them out their winnings.
4.5.3 Raffles
5

The Raffles on PeerBet are another game where there is no house
edge involved and as such everyone taking part in it has a fair and
more importantly equal chance of winning when playing it, just like a
lottery. Once all of the tickets for your Raffle have been sold then the
draw will take place, and the winners will then be announced and they
will instantly be paid their winnings.
4.3 Bit777

Bit777 was one of the first Bitcoin casinos, founded in 2012, to offer a full-suite of
interactive games to the gaming community. The games available on the site,
which are flash-based, were developed by UltraPlay, one of the largest online
gaming software companies. Over its 5-year life, Bit777 has handled over 100,000
Bitcoin in wagers. Monster Byte acquired Bit777, and the software which powers
Bit777, in early 2014 from UltraPlay.
While not Provably Fair, Bit777 utilizes the Mersenne Twister randomizing
technology and its games have been RNG tested. Bit777 offers users a plethora of
games that are not available on Monster Byte’s provably fair casino, Bitcoinrush.io.
Bit777 also runs a mystery jackpot, so that users have a chance of winning even
when they “lose” their wager.
Bit777 currently offers the following games:
● Roulette (6 variations)
○ 8 Wheel Roulette
○ 3 Wheel Roulette
6

●

●

●

●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●
●

○ American Roulette
○ European Roulette
○ French Roulette
○ La Boule
Blackjack (8 variations)
○ Blackjack SH
○ Blackjack MH
○ Blackjack Switch
○ Blackjack Surrender
○ Blackjack Exposure
○ Blackjack Snapjax
○ Blackjack Pontoon
Video Poker (4 variations)
○ Jacks or Better
○ Jokers Export
○ Deuces Wild
○ All American
Slots (4 variations)
○ Blazin 7’s
○ Royal Bars
○ The Pawn Machine
○ Hot Fruits
Sic Bo
Red Dog
Let Em Ride
Baccarat
Casino War
Tri-Card Poker
Trey Poker
3 Card Brag
Caribbean Stud
Stud Poker
Texas Hold ‘Em (as well as Texas Hold Em Bonus)

5.0 ICO Overview
The ICO presale will begin on July 3rd 2017 at 16:00 UTC, and extend until July 8th
16:00 UTC or whenever the presale is sold out, whichever occurs first. During the
7

pre-sale, 2,500,000 Monster Byte tokens will be sold at $0.08 USD, a 31.5%
discount over the general sale.
The general sale will open at July 8th at 16:00, 7,500,000 Monster Byte tokens will
then be sold at $0.11 USD.
All tokens will be sold exclusively on the Monster Byte ICO portal,
https://www.monsterbyte.io​. Users can purchase tokens with Bitcoin, Waves,
Litecoin, Dash, Ethereum, and Shapeshift.
In total, we anticipate raising $1,025,000 USD which will give Monster Byte a $4.4M
post-money valuation*. We chose not to have an open cap as savvy investors
should know exactly what they are buying into, with a well-defined capitalization
model.
*If there is an extremely high demand, Monster Byte reserves the right to issue a third ICO
wave in which principals will offer their tokens up for sale to the general public at a price
TBD. If this were to occur, we would provide 5 days notices via various mediums.

6.0. Exchanges
The Monster Byte token is a Waves platform based token​. We anticipate that the
majority of Monster Byte trading will occur in the Waves Decentralized Exchange
(DEX). However, in an effort to increase liquidity and exposure of Monster Byte to a
broader population, we will also endeavour to include Monster Byte tokens in some
classic exchanges.
As such, our efforts will be concentrated in listing Monster Byte on (in order of
priority):
Must:
1. DEX
2. Tidex
Should:
3. Bittrex
4. Other exchanges may be added if a good opportunity is presented.
We will also submit Monster Byte in Coinmarketcap which as solid way to
ensure that we expose Monster Byte to the wider population.
7.0 Benefits

8

Monster Byte Token holders will benefit from us listing this token on the Waves
Platform due to the ability to easily trade tokens against other assets and
cryptocurrencies all within the DEX, a very liquid decentralized exchange in the
Waves LiteApp Wallet.
On a quarterly basis, all Monster Byte token holders are entitled to their share of
our collective profit (revenue - expenses). Dividends will be paid in bitcoin, and
detailed quarterly reports will be published to provide full transparency on our
operations. An example of a recent report is located here: ​Q1 2017 Report
8.0 Economics: Monster Byte B2C Revenue Model
Since we are not a startup, and have very valuable and practical experience in this
space, we have the ability to share our Historic, and Projected, P&L:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/14hV9RUtrdPeDusRDwdjyFzwmMep3tVOE
daVuOSd4J3M/edit?usp=sharing
5.1 Sportsbook
The sportsbook as a whole has been a very good lesson learned, we
were handling risk at first, then offset with a third party (who went
bankrupt and left us holding the bad) then we handled the risk
ourselves again a bit more intelligently.
Without going into some our intellectual property, we now have a new
model that allows us to earn anywhere from 2%-4% on all bets
placed, regardless of the user wins or loses.
5.2 Casino Edge
It’s true, the house always wins. In the casino, we hold anywhere from
1-7% edge based on the game being played in both BitcoinRush.io and
Bit777.com.

5.3 Peerbet
In Dice, the house retains a 1% edge; and just like other dice sites;
however, this bankroll is still all crowdfunded; so we make a small
commission of the profits (and losses) the investor endures on
PeerBet. In addition, we also charge smaller altcoins a commission
(paid in btc) to list their coin on PeerBet, a recent example of this is
PepeCoin.

9

9.0 Economics: Monster Byte B2B Revenue Model
Syndication of our products and intellectual property is a new venture for Monster
Byte, and something we aim to have off the ground in late 2017. Most pricing
models that other gaming providers support is a monthly ‘license’ fee, in addition to
a share of the operator’s revenue.
We strive to achieve an extremely similar model; however, will likely offer
significant discounts and potential premiums to first-time ‘tenants’ or operators of
our software to not only test the software, but also the support model necessary to
support such a line of business.

10.0 Competitive Analysis
Cryptocurrency Gaming has a rather complex barrier of entry due to the highly
technical nature of handling cryptocurrencies safely, as well as catering to the
needs of cryptocurrency players (e.g. Provably Fair Gaming); however, online
gambling as a whole is an extremely competitive marketplace. In order to be
successful, we need to be able to differentiate ourselves from the competition by
offering more gambling options, a rich and interactive experience, all while
providing the best rewards to keep players coming back.
Most of our competitors are leveraging the same ‘off-the-shelf’ solutions provided
by European gaming providers. While this software is tangibly best in class, our
competitors run into consistent challenges being able to differentiate themselves.
Due to the fact that we own all our intellectual software, and can modify it at will,
we believe we properly compete with all the competitors below.
Main competitors
-

-

Bitcasino.io
- Launched January 2014
- Games offered: Baccarat, Blackjack, Casual Games, Hd Slots, Jackpot
Games, Live Games, Lottery, Roulette, Slots, Table Games, Video
Poker
- Disadvantage: Not Provably Fair, Software is in the control of BetSoft.
Betcoin.ag
- Launched February 2014
- Games offered: Blackjack, Card Games, Dice, Hd Slots, Live Games,
Roulette
- Disadvantage: Not Provably Fair, Software is in the control of BetSoft.
10

-

-

-

-

Bitstarz.com
- Launched June 2014
- Games offered Dice, Hd Slots, Jackpot Games, Live Games, Slots,
Table Games
- Accepts BTC as well as fiat currency
- Disadvantage: Not Provably Fair, does not own its software
FortuneJack.com
- Launched September 2014
- Games offered Bingo, Blackjack, Dice, Hd Slots, Keno, Live Games,
Slots
- Accepts BTC, Ethereum, and fiat currency
- Disadvantage: Not Provably Fair, Poor community presence, deemed
untrustworthy by most
CloudBet.com
- Launched November 2013
- Has a wide-ranging sportsbook
- Casino games offered: Baccarat, Blackjack, Craps, Hd Slots, Roulette,
Slots
- Disadvantage: Not Provably Fair
Nitrogensports.eu
- Launched February 2013
- Sportsbook offering 30+ sporting options to bet on, easily the leader in
the Bitcoin Sportsbook space
- Contains a Poker game which offers Cash Games, Sit & Go’s, and
Tournaments.
- Has a casino which offers the following games: Blackjack, Poker, Dice
- Disadvantage: While having a superior sportsbook, NitrogenSports.eu
has a very limited Casino Offering

11.0 Marketing Plan
By virtue of already being established and reputable for years, we will focus a fair
amount of our attention on acquiring new customers via aggressive giveaways and
play based promotions across our portals. This effort includes hiring staff that will
serve as ‘community managers’ helping promote our various brands in social media
and forums.
Historically, we’ve also found our biggest ROI when it comes to marketing has
always been improvement with our SEO rankings. So In parallel with the
promotions above, we will outsource our organic and paid search efforts to a
professional firm that has proven experience in the online gambling marketplace.
11

12.0 Developmental Roadmap
While we do have very well-established gaming portals, with active users, there is a
clear need to update the user experience across the board, as well as better market
our collective brand.
Immediately following the ICO, our near-term development and marketing
initiatives are as follows:
1. July 2017:​ Hire additional marketing staff, including community managers
for both BitcoinRush.io and PeerBet.org to entice more play, and
camaraderie, within the community. Amazingly in the past four years we
have not had any dedicated marketing staff, or community presence. With
more active community presence we believe we will convert, or “win back”
many users that haven’t been to our consumer sites in years based on the
many advantages our sites have (​automated comps based on volume of play
not wins or losses, strong affiliate brand, etc​).
2. August 2017​: Launch the Updated BitcoinRush.io Sportsbook, this includes
a complete overhaul of the UX (​designed in a responsive manner for mobile
users​), also includes the new risk-management platform, which allows
Monster Byte to retain 2%-4% of every bet placed regardless if the players
wins or loses.

3. ​August 2017:​ ​PeerBet.org, one of the oldest dice sites around, will be
relaunched with a far more modern look and feel; built with a responsive
design for mobile and tablet play.

12

4. ​September 2017:​ We will natively add additional coin support on
BitcoinRush.io. Just ahead of the US NFL season, we will begin accepting
other cryptocurrency coins, including Waves, Ethereum, Litecoin, Dash, and
others. This broadens our reach of players by substantially lowering the
barrier of entry, and cost for customers around the world to place wagers in
both the Casino and Sportsbook
5. ​November 2017:​ B2B APIs. Casino and Sportsbook APIs will be available
for consumption by third party operators that want the benefit of our no-risk
sportsbook, and provably fair casino platform. Monster Byte will charge a
yearly platform licensing fee, as well as partake in a share of the operator's
revenue.
6. ​January 2018​: As part of a broader global strategy, we will launch
additional language support on all consumer sites we own and operate.
Starting with Mandarin Chinese, we anticipate a large lift with Asian gamblers
that are entering the cryptocurrency marketplace in force, and also have
always historically embraced gambling.

13.0 ICO Token Allocation
The following is the exact breakdown of Monster Byte tokens. In total there are
40,000,000 Monster Byte tokens. We will not issue any beyond that amount. If the
ICO were to sell out completely, it would give Monster Byte a run rate of 12
months, so Principals, Owners, and New Hires would not execute any tokens on the
open market. However, If there is a need for additional capital beyond the 12

13

month period, Principals / Owners will sell tokens OTC, or in a controlled and
responsible way as to avoid impact of the price of Monster Byte Inc.
# of tokens
Principals / Owners / New Hires

51.10%

20,588,428

Havelock Unit Holders

20.15%

8,061,572

Waves Sale

25.00%

10,000,000

Bounties

1.50%

600,000

Advisors

1.88%

750,000

14.0 Conclusion
We stand firm that the Monster Byte ICO is an extremely unique and exciting
opportunity you will not find in the plethora of ICOs launching daily. This is
primarily due to:
●
●
●

Our proven track record, as we’ve been operating in the cryptocurrency
gaming space since 2013.
This is not an idea or startup, we are post-revenue, all our products are
launched and have active usage.
Our team has collective over 40 years experience in the internet technology
and gaming sector. We are confident we can execute on the roadmap we’ve
set for ourselves.

This is your chance to invest in one of the fastest growing industries. Sports betting
and online gambling is one of the best use cases for cryptocurrencies. Currently,
online gambling as a whole is a $46 Billion/year market. Depending on estimates, it
is expected to be approximately $50 Billion/year by 2019. At the same time, due
the benefits of both the player and operator, cryptocurrency gambling is going to
‘eat into’ this market gradually year over year.
Please visit our website and sign up for our newsletter to get the latest updates on
the ICO and presale.
Web​: ​https://www.monsterbyte.io/ico
Slack​:​https://join.slack.com/monsterbyte/shared_invite/MjAyMzg4Njk4OTMzLTE0O
TgxNjk2MDQtOTgyMjRmYzI0Mg
Bitcointalk:​ ​https://bitcointalk.org/index.php?topic=1980482

14

