Financial services for
Blockchain companies, eResidents and digital nomads.

Section 1: Products
Mothership is building blockchain financial services around the Estonian
e-Residence government programme. The core of these services are:

!
A token market for the EU, democratising funding for new blockchain
projects
Acting as a gateway to cryptocurrency markets for Estonian blockchain
companies and a go-to place for launching new ones, Mothership will
help prospective startups build a legal framework for digital assets and
execute successful funding campaigns.

!
A new wallet, connected to your e-Resident digital identity
Your Mothership wallet can be connected to your e-Residency digital
identity, protecting your funds with digital signatures and streamlining
your decisions to simply spend or save.

!
A secure, stable cryptocurrency exchange with additional features for
e-Residents and EU businesses
A state-of-the-art digital asset exchange with focus on security, great
customer service and reliability. Mothership will run on world's best
infrastructure and provide 24/7 uninterrupted access to markets. When
integrated with e-Residency, verification for individuals and companies
becomes an easy process, allowing you to switch from ETH to EUR in
moments.

!
A blockchain and exchange connected hosting platform for your own
applications
Mothership will provide a PaaS solution for hosting applications in the
same datacenter with our exchange. Users will be able to build high
frequency trading bots, payment gateways or any other apps using any
programming language. Direct connection to the exchange will
guarantee minimal latency, while automatic scaling and managed
runtime will allow developers to focus on what really matters - building
apps.

Section 2: e-Residency
Estonia is the first country to oﬀer e-Residency, a government-issued
digital ID available to anyone in the world. It is a legally binding signature
that allows to register an EU based company entirely online. Technically
it is a pair of RSA keys linked with your identity.
When linked with Mothership, e-Residency becomes even more powerful
- it allows you to incorporate your blockchain business in Estonia,
operate it 100% remotely, get a bank account and link it with our
exchange.
Estonia estimates 10,000,000 e-Residents by 2025. Mothership is proud
to be working with the Estonian government’s e-Residency team to help
build the future.
Our partner from e-Residency team is Oleg Gutsol, a serial entrepreneur
and now a Head of Global Growth at e-Residency.
Learn more about e-Residency at https://e-resident.gov.ee
Important note is that Mothership services will be available for anyone,
but e-Residents will be able to enjoy additional security and integration
features. 

Section 3: Team & Advisors

Section 4: Fundraising
The Token
MSP will be built on the Ethereum platform as an ERC20 token. There will
be a total supply of 200,000,000 MSP.
MSP serves as a core part of Mothership, and is required for:
- Access to Premium and Platinum account tiers
- The Mothership app platform layer
- Community curation and insight rewards
- Access to Mothership beta products
- Mothership reputation management
In addition, Mothership will repurchase MSP on the free market using
20% of fees from Mothership products. The repurchased MSP will be
permanently destroyed. We will do so until 50% of the supply is
destroyed.

The Fundraising
Here are some important notes on how the fundraising will work:
1. This fundraising oﬀering will end on 28th July or when all tokens are
sold.
2. MSP token is priced in ETH, 1 ETH = 5800 MSP.
3. The crowdfunding will run on Ethereum Smart Contract, accepting
ETH payments in exchange for MSP tokens.
4. Tokens that remain unsold by the end of the crowdfund will be
permanently destroyed.

5. The token will be available as follows:

6.
7.

70% of MSP tokens will be available for purchase in this
fundraising round.
20% of MSP tokens are reserved for purchase by our Strategic
Investors.
5% of MSP tokens will be earned through the Mothership Referral
Program in this fundraising round.
5% of MSP tokens will be reserved for the team and advisors.
Participants of the crowdfund will gain access to their MSP 24 hours
after the crowdfund ends.
At least 50,000,000 MSP must be sold for the fundraising to be
considered a success. If less are sold, all buyers will be refunded.

The Referral Program

-

Each crowdsale participant will be provided with a unique referral
URL ( http://buy.msp.cx/?r=x ).

-

A referrer will receive an additional amount of tokens equal to 5% of
the tokens bought by all of their referred buyers.

-

This additional 5% is taken from the reserved 5% referral fund.

-

For example:

-

You and a friend both purchase 100 MSP, but your friend signs
up using your referral link.

-

You will receive: 105 MSP.
Your friend will receive: 100 MSP.

When Mothership launches, these referral URLs will be converted to
exchange referrals where you will receive 5% of your referred users
trading fees. When users you referred during the crowdsale sign up
for Mothership, you will receive referral rewards for them too.

Section 5: Timeline
To learn more about our development timeline, please refer to our
Transparent Roadmap:
https://trello.com/b/icEYDrpu/mothership-transparent-roadmap

Section 6: Contact
https://mothership.cx
Email: hello@mothership.cx
Telegram: https://t.me/mothershipcx
Twitter: https://twitter.com/MothershipCX

