Press Release

Mycelium Wallet
Crowdsale
Dear fellows!
Bitcoiners, blockchain enthusiasts, crypto anarchists, libertarians,
scientists, coders, big thinkers, journalists, and even bankers, payment
processing guys, regulators and politicians!
El momento de la verdad has come.
We have decided to distribute  % of Mycelium Wallet (whose name will
change to Mycelium by the end of this year with the release of a radical
upgrade) among its users and bitcoin / cryptocurrency / blockchain
technology developers and supporters.
We want Mycelium users to be Mycelium stakeholders.
There are three reasons for this.
We need money to support the current version and update it from time to
time with the new features.
We need a lot more money to develop the new Mycelium and we have
already started working on it about six months ago —you will find the
brief description of the new Mycelium here: wallet.mycelium.com; we
plan to roll it out this fall.
We think that it is much better when the stakeholders are the users,
partners and customers of the product. You know how good Mycelium
Wallet is, we know how much you trust us, and you can be sure— the new
Mycelium will blow you away!



We want you to decide how valuable Mycelium is by participating in the
first in history Mycelium Wallet Crowdsale.
Our team has been working untiringly to make Mycelium into a very
functional, reliable product, serving the needs of both beginners and
professional bitcoiners; now we are ready to bring Mycelium to the next
level.
Many of you have been our users from the very beginning and you are the
most loyal and valuable users, forgiving us the geeky , the nerdy  and
the missing iOS version (though we had it for a while).
New Mycelium will inherit all of the bitcoin functionality that the
Mycelium Wallet has now and will get a lot more; it is being designed for
both Android and iOS from the very beginning; but what is more
important, it will be much closer to non-bitcoin (blockchain) users utilizing
blockchains (!) for managing fiat and will have tons of features making
routine economic / financial experience of the user simpler and easier.
We think we have found the best solution to be legally compliant, but legal
does not always mean right, or true, or secure, or honest. Personally, I would
not even bother with trying to get all the papers and legal documents for
this, instead just trusting the blockchain records for this much more and
waiting for the first precedent protecting the rights written in the
blockchain. A public promise to make something is still considered an
obligation to do so, and this is exactly what I am doing here. Just to assure
you that this crowdsale is legally sound, we have gone through all the
necessary internal legal procedures to make this happen.
Until recently the problem we all could not solve was how to simply and
securely issue the asset, register the rights for it, and easily transfer those
rights to someone else. Now we have the instruments for that and you are
smart enough to understand and use it. We are using Colu.co protocol for
this crowdsale; next time we will be using Waves or Ethereum. Or maybe
something else. The beauty of blockchain is saving the world, literally. And
we are happy to be able to take part in it and see you joining us!
Sincerely,
Alexander Kuzmin
Mycelium, 


