Nexxus Whitepaper
April 5, 2017

“Bitcoin currently is the largest social economic experiment
ever conducted in the history of the world."
Gavin Andresen
Former lead bitcoin developer and one of a few individuals that
worked and communicated directly with Satoshi Nakamoto.

Contents
OVERVIEW ........................................................................................................................................ 2
Abstract ............................................................................................................................... 2
Introduction......................................................................................................................... 2
The Problem Bitcoin Solves ................................................................................................. 3
Solution Acceptance ............................................................................................................ 4
Solution Technology ............................................................................................................ 5
NEXXUS REWARDS............................................................................................................................ 6
Nexxus Rewards Technology ............................................................................................... 6
Merchant Value Proposition ............................................................................................... 7
Shopper Value Proposition.................................................................................................. 8
Nexxus Crypto-Café ............................................................................................................. 9
Nexxus ATM......................................................................................................................... 9
SUPPORTING TECHNOLOGIES ........................................................................................................10
Nexxus University ..............................................................................................................10
Nexxus Barter ....................................................................................................................11
Nexxus HandUp .................................................................................................................11
Nexxus Sales Management ...............................................................................................12
DIGITAL TOKEN ...............................................................................................................................12
Role of the Nexxus Digital Token.......................................................................................12
MARKETING PLAN ..........................................................................................................................13
Go-To-Market Strategy......................................................................................................13
MANAGEMENT ...............................................................................................................................15
Nexxus Team .....................................................................................................................15
Nexxus Expertise ...............................................................................................................17
Nexxus Timeline ................................................................................................................19
References .........................................................................................................................20
(1)

OVERVIEW
Abstract
Nexxus Partners was established in January 2016 in Texas, USA as a services
company for the bitcoin and cryptocurrency industry. Nexxus has already
developed advanced technology and innovative business models preparing to
take cryptocurrency from the digital world to hometown communities all over
the world, with cryptocurrency cafés, ATMs and a shopper rewards program.
Nexxus recognizes that the mainstream public will adopt cryptocurrency only
after they understand what it is and how they can benefit from it. The new
emerging technology of cryptocurrency requires an ecosystem of support
services, which are provided by Nexxus to facilitate the mainstream adoption of
cryptocurrency.
Nexxus is empowering people to take back control of their money with the
biggest disruptive technology in modern history; an unstoppable grass-roots
movement that won’t be trampled on by any government or bank. It’s all about
the people’s freedom and reclaiming it.

Introduction
Bitcoin technology is uniquely ingenious, innovative and accomplishes the objectives described in the
2008 whitepaper titled “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System” by Satoshi Nakamoto. The
Bitcoin whitepaper abstract states: “A purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would allow
online payments to be sent directly from one party to another without going through a financial
institution.”
As the Bitcoin technology matures and evolves with continual improvements for its safe and secure
use, an equally important question arises on how Bitcoin solutions will be delivered to the
marketplace. The former lead Bitcoin developer, Gavin Andresen, asserts that Bitcoin is the largest
social economic experiment ever conducted in the history of the world. This experiment must move
from the technology laboratory to the mainstream public in order to realize its full potential, described
by many experts as having the ability to impact human culture in a greater way than any other
disruptive technology in modern history.
Some say it will be bigger than the personal computer and the Internet combined because we are now
talking about disrupting the current worldwide political and financial establishment’s power structure
– the people’s money.

(2)

The Problem Bitcoin Solves
To fully appreciate the Bitcoin solution, one must first understand the problem that Bitcoin solves.
Leading up to the 2008 United States financial crisis, the number of lower-quality subprime mortgages
rose from 8% to over 20%, with 90% of those being adjustable-rate mortgages. The crisis was triggered
by a large decline in home prices after the collapse of a housing bubble that was caused by the
increased demand by subprime borrowers. The lower-credit quality ultimately caused massive defaults
and the devaluation of housing-related securities.
The poor-quality mortgages had been packaged together and fraudulently sold as high-quality
mortgage-backed securities, due to the over-generous A+ ratings by Moody’s and Standard and Poor’s
who were paid by the banks offering the “safe” investments.
When U.S. home prices declined steeply after peaking in mid-2006, it became more difficult for
borrowers to refinance their loans. As adjustable-rate mortgages began to reset at higher interest rates
(causing higher monthly payments), mortgage delinquencies soared. Securities backed with mortgages,
including subprime mortgages, widely held by financial firms globally, lost most of their value, forcing
many large financial corporations into bankruptcy.
The United States 2008 financial crisis was only a symptom of the real problem of widespread
corruption by financial institutions, governments and central banks. Governments have the selfassigned ability to create money out of nothing, typically by politicians in order to fund their pet
projects to fulfill commitments made to campaign donors and the people that got them elected. The
problem is not unique to the United States and is very common with all governments around the
globe. Similar financial crises have hit many other countries like Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, South Korea,
Turkey, Cypress and Greece to name a few with corrupt and irresponsible governments that were
wildly spending other people’s money and borrowing well beyond their ability to repay. Some
governments even confiscated money from their citizens in order to pay for their debts.
These actions constitute a form of legalized theft from the people. When more currency is printed or
digitally created, the currency supply increases while the value of the currency decreases. Not only do
the people end up with less value and purchasing power in the currency they hold, they are also taxed
to pay for the newly created currency in the form of bonds, which constitute the bulk of the national
debt – a double slap in the face of the people. In the United States, the Federal Reserve was
established in 1913 and is one of many central banks worldwide designed to control the money and
thus control the people.
The former Director of the Bank of England, Sir Josiah Stamp shared his wise insights as follows:
"The modern banking system manufactures money out of nothing. The process is perhaps the most
astounding piece of sleight of hand that was ever invented. Banking was conceived in iniquity and
born in sin. Bankers own the earth. Take it away from them, but leave them the power to create
money and control credit, and with the flick of a pen, they will create enough money to buy it back
again... But if you want to continue as the slaves of bankers and pay the cost of your own slavery,
let them continue to create money and to control credit."
(3)

Bitcoin was specifically designed to solve and transcend all these problems. The fundamental principles
of Bitcoin and all cryptocurrencies include:
1. DECENTRALIZATION: Cryptocurrency is owned and controlled by the people. The public ledger
or “blockchain” is a decentralized, distributed ledger stored collectively on millions of
computers worldwide and is governed by consensus algorithms, math and the people, not by
governments, financial institutions or central banks.
2. PRIVACY: The consumer's identity is as anonymous as they want it to be. The blockchain
contains only cryptic numbers known as cryptocurrency coin addresses for the sender and
receiver of each transaction.
3. UNLIMITED USE: Cryptocurrency can be sent immediately to and from anyone, anywhere,
anytime, for anything, in any amount, with little or no fees.
4. CONTROLLED SUPPLY: No one can change the predetermined and published circulation
schedule of a cryptocurrency. The government cannot arbitrarily create more cryptocurrency
out of thin air and devalue it. Cryptocurrencies have many of the same characteristics as the
precious metals that were once used to back a currency. They work because of their controlled
and limited supply.
5. TRANSPARENCY: Everything is public. All technical specifications, whitepapers and source code
files are published for the public to see. All cryptocurrency transactions are recorded in the
blockchain for everyone to see with a publicly provided blockchain explorer.
No government or bank can create more bitcoins or any other cryptocurrency, nor can they confiscate
anyone’s money or tell anyone what they can and can’t do with their money. Bitcoin is a grass-roots
movement driven by the people and is unstoppable in the exact same way that the Internet cannot be
stopped or shut down because it has no single point of control or failure.

Solution Acceptance
The challenge of gaining broad acceptance is not unique to Bitcoin. Every new technology faces the
same challenges as it strives to cross the chasm from early technology adopters to mainstream public
acceptance.
Personal computers were first invented in the mid-1970s as assembly kits. They were first used by
techie hobbyists and were of little to no interest to the public. It wasn’t until there was a benefit for
them that they started paying attention to personal computers. The VisiCalc electronic spreadsheet by
Dan Bricklin in 1979 was the first application (or “Killer App”) for the personal computer that provided
benefits to non-techies and owners of small and medium sized businesses. The general adoption of
personal computers by the average Joe and Jane didn’t happen until the Graphical User Interface (GUI)
had matured through three major versions of Microsoft Windows on May 22, 1990, with Windows 3.0.
The original Internet, ARPANET, was invented in 1969, with commercial Internet Service Providers (ISP)
starting to pop up in the late 1980s, followed by the first graphical Internet browser, Mosaic (Netscape)
by Marc Andreessen in 1993. However, mainstream adoption did not occur until the mid-to-late 1990s
with “Killer Apps” like electronic mail, information search engines, and electronic commerce.
(4)

The personal computer and the Internet took ten to fifteen years to achieve mainstream public
adoption. Bitcoin is only eight years old and is still searching for the Killer App that will attract the
general public. Cryptocurrency is currently where personal computers were with green screens and
floppy drives in the early-to-mid 1980s. Bitcoin solutions have a ways to go before they will be
considered easy, safe and convenient to use. Finding merchants in your community that will accept
bitcoin payments is not easy. The cryptocurrency industry will develop mature and convenient
solutions just as personal computers replaced an entire infrastructure of corporate computing.
The real question being asked by the general public is “What’s in it for me?”, “Why should I use
bitcoin?” after all, their credit cards still work just fine. There must be a good reason for people to buy
and use bitcoin. One might be tempted to think that the inherit benefits of decentralization, privacy,
unlimited use, controlled supply and transparency are sufficiently good reasons, except for the fact
that most people have never heard of cryptocurrency and have no idea what Bitcoin really is.
The ultimate delivery solution must accomplish multiple goals. First, it must help the general public
understand what bitcoin is, what problems it solves, why it is important, how it can benefit them, and
how to use it safely and securely. Second, it must provide a sufficient benefit for the general public to
use it. There must be a very good reason, a “Killer-App” if you will, possibly something like getting a
better deal from merchants when paying with cryptocurrency. But before they will recognize and
desire a benefit, they must first understand what it is.
Regarding merchants, bitcoin is currently being presented to them as a payment processing solution to
save a few percentage points in credit card processing fees. The opportunities are much greater for
merchants to benefit from bitcoin and other top cryptocurrency marketing solutions to significantly
increase their sales revenue by acquiring and retaining new customers.

Solution Technology
The complete bitcoin solution for the mainstream public adoption of cryptocurrency includes many
layers of technology, similar to computer technology that has a Central Processing Unit (CPU) to do the
main computing work, but also has layers of technology support services like user input devices
(keyboards, mice, microphones), user output devices (monitors, speakers, printers), storage devices
(RAM, hard drives, memory cards) and communication devices (network cards, Bluetooth, infrared, WiFi) that constitute the complete solution we call a computer.
Likewise, the core Bitcoin technology is the blockchain software, equating to a CPU. The blockchain
software is supplemented with technology support services like blockchain explorers, wallets, public
exchanges, price aggregators, payment processors, news propagators, industry watchdogs, educational
services and marketing solutions that make up the complete bitcoin solution for the end-users.
Each of these support service technologies is as important to the complete bitcoin solution as our arms
and legs are to our brain. The development and maturity of these technology support services will
define the usefulness and eventual adoption of cryptocurrency by the mainstream public.
Cryptocurrency blockchain software is constantly being improved and matured with the release of new
versions and even new cryptocurrencies. The technology support services are also maturing and new
services are being introduced to expand the reach and value of bitcoin solutions to the public.
(5)

As Bitcoin technology expands outward from the core blockchain software, to the end-user it provides
more opportunities for creative user experiences and innovative business models to play a significant
role in the complete bitcoin solution.

NEXXUS REWARDS

Nexxus Rewards Technology
Cryptocurrency is disruptive but more people need to understand it in order for it to be truly
transformational. Nexxus has chosen a suite of services designed to help popularize cryptocurrencies.
They pivot around the Nexxus Rewards – Global Rewards Community. Merchant loyalty programs
suffer from several problems that blockchain technology can uniquely solve. As Nexxus Rewards solves
some of those industry-specific problems, it will be helping the overall cause of cryptocurrency
adoption.
The core technology is Nexxus Rewards – a global rewards community. Nexxus Rewards facilitates the
use of cryptocurrency with a win-win-win situation for the merchants, shoppers and the local
community. Shoppers have mobile and desktop apps to find Nexxus merchants to collect and redeem
Nexxus Rewards points. Nexxus Merchants have Nexxus promotional advertising in their stores. The
Nexxus Rewards technology is already up and running in production with beta merchants currently
offering free cash back rewards to shoppers.
Nexxus merchants can come from all types of businesses in the local community like bakeries, salons,
restaurants, boutiques, dry cleaners, tire stores, flower stores, gift shops, cafes, pizza parlors, burger
joints, frozen yogurt shops, grocery stores, service stations, butcher shops, game centers, miniature
golf, movie theaters, home repairs, real estate, car dealerships, etc.
Nexxus Rewards is the first global rewards loyalty technology for bitcoin and other top
cryptocurrencies. Nexxus Rewards meets people where they are most comfortable today by accepting
any local fiat currency and eventually leading them to the virtues of cryptocurrency.
Nexxus Rewards plans for explosive growth worldwide with a trained and certified independent direct
sales force and a distribution strategy designed to create critical mass in local communities in order to
provide enough shoppers for the merchants and enough merchants for the shoppers.
Nexxus Partners has a strong technology background and has developed all of its technology internally
over many years. All technology, including the Nexxus Global Rewards system and its many supporting
services like the Nexxus University Learning Management System (LMS), the Nexxus Barter system and
the Direct Sales Management system are all developed, owned and controlled by Nexxus with no thirdparty dependencies for critical functionality. This enables Nexxus to move quickly with enhancements
and refinements to meet the changing needs of the business environment.

(6)

Merchant Value Proposition
Risk Free: Nexxus merchants have a completely risk-free solution to get and keep new customers.
There are no signup fees, no contracts, no special software and no special terminals to lease or
purchase. Merchants pay nothing until after they make the sale – no more Pay-n-Pray advertising.
Customer Acquisition: Merchants can acquire new customers by accessing Nexxus registered shoppers
with a text messaging (SMS) marketing system to send daily promotions at no additional cost.
Merchants can reach shoppers that may not even know they exist and reach them where they are – on
their mobile devices. Merchants also have an online presence on the mobile shopper application.
Customer Retention: Merchants can keep customers coming back again and again to collect and
redeem their cash back rewards. Merchants can offer cash back rewards that are redeemable at any
merchant in the network and they can offer exclusive recognition awards redeemable only at the
issuing merchant.
Flexible Pricing: Merchants can name their own price for the valuable Nexxus marketing services. Each
merchant decides how much cash back reward they will offer based on their profit margins. Even the
low 1% to 5% marketing fees are flexible and based on the offered cash back reward.
Additional Revenue: Merchants can create an additional
revenue stream by participating in the free Nexxus viral
marketing program that pays them for every transaction done
at any merchant by any shopper they refer and anyone those
shoppers refer… to infinity.
Cryptocurrency Payments: Merchants also have unlimited
access to a cryptocurrency payment-processing gateway that
allows them to accept bitcoin and any other top
cryptocurrencies supported by Nexxus Rewards.
Merchant Portal:

(7)

Shopper Value Proposition
Global Rewards: The Nexxus shared rewards program allows shoppers to
register free of charge, collect free cash back reward points and redeem
them at any Nexxus merchant.
Dynamic Points: Shoppers can collect dynamic cash back reward points that
can increase in value as usage of Nexxus Rewards grows worldwide.
Referral Rewards: Shoppers can earn free referral shopping rewards for
every transaction done by any shopper they personally refer.

Shopper Portal:

(8)

Nexxus Crypto-Café
The Nexxus strategy to take cryptocurrency from the digital world to home town communities all over
the world includes local physical Nexxus Crypto-Cafés as the community centers for everything
cryptocurrency. Nexxus Crypto-Cafés are community centers for the public to learn about and use
cryptocurrency. Every Nexxus Crypto-Café will have a cryptocurrency automated teller machine (ATM)
for exchanging cryptocurrency to and from the local fiat currency.
The Nexxus Crypto-Café is the local Nexxus sales headquarters supporting merchants and community
organizations, as well as training and supporting the independent Nexxus sales force.
Nexxus Crypto-Cafés will include lounge areas, classrooms, small offices, free Wi-Fi, food and beverage
services, ATMs and cryptocurrency promotional products and supplies for anyone in the community to
learn about, use and promote cryptocurrency. Cryptocurrency ticker tapes and cryptocurrency news
will be continually broadcast from the Nexxus Crypto-Cafés.
Nexxus Crypto-Cafés are licensed to qualified independent operators for explosive growth in
predeveloped global markets. Nexxus Crypto-Café operators will be trained and certified at the CryptoCafé University. Operators can profit from the retail product sales, food and beverage sales, ATM
transaction fees and instructor-led class fees as well as Nexxus Rewards related sales and service
commissions and bonuses.

Nexxus ATM
The Nexxus Automated Teller Machines (ATM) will support the 2-way
exchange of bitcoin and other top cryptocurrencies to and from the local fiat
currency and are equipped to support KYC and AML requirements. Nexxus
ATMs will be located in every Nexxus Crypto-Café and will be available for
licensing and placement in high traffic public locations.

(9)

SUPPORTING TECHNOLOGIES

Nexxus University
Nexxus Rewards is the core technology and has an
educational service, Nexxus University, to support the
eventual widespread use of Nexxus Rewards. The
public must first learn about cryptocurrency with the
Nexxus University, which has been providing many
educational courses on cryptocurrency since early
2016.
Many opportunities for learning are available on
services like Coursera and YouTube. Nexxus
University has organized a plethora of information
about cryptocurrency in an easy to learn way for the
average non-technical person. Nexxus has created a
structured environment with accurate and current
information to facilitate the learning process and test
if the student really learned the subject matter and to
recognize them accordingly.
Nexxus University courses are delivered on a
professional Learning Management System (LMS)
with multiple multimedia lessons per course, lesson
quizzes, exams and professional certificates. The
current courses include:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Cryptocurrency Enlightenment
The History of Money
The Bitcoin Solution
Understanding Cryptocurrency

Hard-core enthusiasts can become a “Certified Cryptocurrency Specialist” (CCS) by passing the tough
100 question final exam. All Nexxus Rewards direct sales reps and Nexxus Crypto-Café operators are
required to pass the CCS exam as part of their certification.
All Nexxus University courses are currently available in English and Spanish with plans for future
support of many additional languages including Mandarin and Hindi.
Nexxus University provides cryptocurrency courseware at very affordable retail prices from $9.95 to
$24.95 per course for 12-month access for the student and their entire family, in an effort to educate
as many people as possible about cryptocurrency.

(10)

As part of an additional effort to share the virtues of cryptocurrency with everyone, Nexxus University
has an affiliate program enabling free registered affiliates to earn a share of the retail revenue by
promoting the Nexxus University courses.
Learn more at www.NexxusUniversity.com.

Nexxus Barter
Nexxus Rewards also includes support services for its end-users to trade their unwanted or surplus
products and services with each other in cash or cryptocurrency with Nexxus Barter.
Other services like Craigslist and ITEX bartering provide the ability for consumers to trade with each
other. Nexxus expands these existing services with a free bartering service that supports
cryptocurrency and provides a co-branded bartering service for local community affinity groups.
Anyone can join free of charge and list free barter ads to sell the stuff they no longer use or need.
Nexxus Barter is considered the Craigslist/eBay of cryptocurrency. In addition to unlimited free barter
ad listings, sellers can optionally feature and promote their barter ads on the Nexxus Barter search
page. Nexxus Barter is designed as a local community bartering system for in-person transactions.
Nexxus Barter was released in late 2016 and is undergoing beta testing as it accumulates barter ad
listings. The production system already includes barter area expansion, optional ad features, ad
campaign management and ad credit purchases for the optional ad upgrade services.
Nexxus Barter is an ideal solution for local organizations like churches, schools and charities to have a
co-branded bartering solution for their membership, which can create free fundraising for the
organization. Consumers that register free of charge have full access to all the Nexxus Rewards and
Nexxus Barter services.

Nexxus HandUp
Nexxus Partners supports the use of cryptocurrency for all people in all circumstances. Nexxus Partners
looks to help the underprivileged gain an advantage in the new evolving world of cryptocurrency with
full scholarships to Nexxus University for selected families in countries all around the world. Nexxus
Partners works with local community leaders and news media to identify and qualify scholarship
candidates.

(11)

Nexxus Sales Management
Nexxus provides a comprehensive sales management system for its direct sales representatives and its
affiliates. The Nexxus Sales Management software has been developed over 13 years and is owned and
maintained internally to provide all the sales and marketing tools required for a professional
independent sales force.
Sales reps have access to personalized sales and lead generation tools, university course inventory
management, order processing, sales commissions and bonuses, sales and support resource centers,
sales team management, sales territory management, sales training and certification, merchant and
organization management, mentoring system, support knowledgebase and support ticket system.
All direct sales representatives and affiliates have secured access to their personalized Nexxus backoffice with the enhanced security of Two Factor Authentication (2FA).

DIGITAL TOKEN

Role of the Nexxus Digital Token
The Nexxus Digital Token was developed in the early stages of product development of the Nexxus
ecosystem in 2016 by Nexxus Partners. It was designed from the beginning to be the internal currency
for value exchange within the various Nexxus solutions. Some Nexxus tokens were distributed for
product development funding in part to private angel investors and other contributors with the early
vision to see the potential of the Nexxus mission and business strategy. The Nexxus digital token
currently has a privately established value of $0.10 USD.
Internal Currency: The Nexxus internal reward points used for the cash back rewards represent a
digital token called the Nexxus Coin. It is the internal currency of Nexxus used throughout the Nexxus
ecosystem including Nexxus Rewards, Nexxus University and Nexxus Barter for purchases and the
internal exchange of products and services.
Technical Specifications: The Nexxus Coin utilizes the latest Proof-of-Stake (POS) protocol to secure its
network and had its genesis block created on March 1, 2016. Nexxus Coin was forked from and follows
Black Coin due to its strong developer community and implementation of POS 2.0 and POS 3.0 for
enhanced security. Nexxus Coin has a 60-second block time and an initial money supply of 299M with a
5% annual staking rate. Learn more about the Nexxus Coin specifications, block-chain explorer,
downloadable wallets and public GitHub source code repository at www.NexxusCoin.com.
(12)

Automatic Buyer Demand: The Nexxus Coin digital token has built in buyer demand as the internal
currency of Nexxus Rewards. Every purchase in any currency drives buyer demand and the value of the
Nexxus Coin digital token. Regardless of the currency used for the purchase, the cash back reward
percentage offered by the merchant is automatically purchased from the market in Nexxus Coins.
For example, if 10,000 merchants were issuing $1,000 a month in cash back rewards,
100M Nexxus Coins would be purchased from the market (at a price of $0.10). That’s
approximately 1/3 of the total money supply every month.
Reward Point Bonuses: Additional bonuses will be offered by the Nexxus University for meeting
Nexxus Reward point earning milestones. Users will receive free educational courses as they earn more
and more Nexxus Rewards points. For example, earning $25 in Nexxus Rewards points will earn a free
course certificate for the “Cryptocurrency Enlightenment” introductory course, which can be used for
any purpose. The reward points need only be earned, they do not need to be held and no points are
surrendered or redeemed for the course certificates. Meeting the reward point milestones is all that is
needed.
Distinctive Advantage: Many traditional loyalty programs are available today without blockchain
technology. The Nexxus Rewards blockchain solution has a distinct advantage over traditional exclusive
static loyalty points with SHARED and DYNAMIC Reward Points.
Token Utility: Similar to the Ether coin used by Ethereum, the Nexxus Coin digital token has utility as
the internal currency of the Nexxus ecosystem and can increase in value as usage of the Nexxus
Rewards solution grows worldwide. Ethereum provides computing services for a market of
programmers, while Nexxus provides commerce services for a much larger market of shoppers.

MARKETING PLAN
Go-To-Market Strategy
Viral Marketing
The most effective form of advertising is word-of-mouth. Nexxus Rewards includes a viral marketing
program designed to provide financial incentives to its merchants and shoppers for referring new
shoppers to Nexxus. Shoppers can earn free shopping reward points for every transaction at any
Nexxus merchant by anyone they personally refer. Shoppers can share Nexxus with their friends and
family and earn free shopping rewards.
Merchants can create an additional revenue stream on every transaction at any Nexxus merchant by
shoppers they refer and by anyone those shoppers refer… to infinity. Both shoppers and merchants
earn 10% of the marketing fees generated from the transactions. Shoppers earn reward points and
merchants earn cash. Merchants could potentially offset all of their Nexxus marketing fees with the
additional viral marketing revenue stream.

(13)

Certified Direct Sales Force
Nexxus partners with independent entrepreneurs worldwide to create a trained and certified direct
sales force to build the merchant and shopper network. Qualified direct sales representatives set up,
train and support merchants and organizations in the local community. Direct sales reps work with
merchants and organizations to build large infinity shopper networks. Direct sales reps earn 20% of the
marketing fees generated from all purchases at any Nexxus merchant by any shopper in their entire
infinity shopper network.
Direct sales representatives typically have worked in related fields like credit card payment processing
services, advertising sales, business insurance sales, disability insurance sales like Aflac, etc. These are
all proven successful commission-based independent sales forces.
Development of the direct sales force will be initiated in major cities in the United States including; Los
Angeles, San Francisco, Seattle, Salt Lake City, Phoenix, Denver, Dallas, Chicago, Atlanta, Miami and
New York City. International expansion will be developed based on market penetration.
Nexxus promotes sales management from within to manage the worldwide direct sales force. A
worldwide management structure of supervisors, managers, directors and V.P.s share in 20% of the
generated marketing fees. The Nexxus Sales Management system provides direct sales reps with
secured access to sales and marketing tools, sales commissions and bonuses, a customer management
system, support knowledgebase and a sales support ticket system.
Community Outreach
Nexxus Rewards benefits the entire community by working with local non-profit organizations and
affinity groups to provide them with a perpetual fundraising program for their much-needed operating
funds. Organizations receive the same opportunity as the merchants to build a large infinity shopper
network and earn 10% of the marketing fees generated by every transaction at any merchant by any
shoppers they refer and anyone those shoppers refer… to infinity.
Community organizations no longer need to send their kids out to sell candy bars and greeting cards.
They can now raise funds automatically every day, week and month from their shoppers that keep
shopping. And what’s the likelihood that shoppers will stop shopping?
Critical Mass Strategy
Nexxus Rewards will be successfully launched in communities around the world by the qualified direct
sales force with a detailed 3-phase rollout strategy to build critical mass within sales territories defined
worldwide by postal code.
Phase 1 requires the establishment of a sufficient qualified direct sales force based on the population
of the sales territory. 1 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) is required per 25,000 population. 1 FTE is considered
40 hours per week. 2 qualified direct sales reps working 20 hours a week each would also equal 1 FTE.
Phase 2 requires the registration of a significant number of shoppers equal to 1% of the population of
the sales territory. For example, if a postal code has a population of 50,000, Nexxus requires 500
registered shoppers to complete phase 2 for that sales territory. Local organizations should provide the
momentum to easily meet the 1% requirement. Nexxus Barter can provide a valuable service for the
shoppers before the merchants are available.
(14)

Phase 3 is the start of setting up pre-sold merchants. Merchants will have been made aware of the
coming Nexxus marketing solution throughout phases 1 and 2. The risk-free solution and allure of 500
shoppers in their community looking for merchants just like them should make it easy to attract a large
number of local merchants in the sales territory.
Nexxus Rewards has a comprehensive Go-To-Market Strategy to ensure its success in the local
community through the use of viral marketing, a qualified direct sales force, community outreach and
a 3-phase rollout strategy for achieving critical mass.

MANAGEMENT
Nexxus Team
Robert A. Wood, Founder & CEO
Bob Wood is the founder and CEO of Nexxus Partners and is a senior technologist,
formerly working with Bill Gate’s company, Microsoft, and Ross Perot’s company,
Electronic Data Systems. In 2004, he founded Pinnacle Institute, a marketing and
technology consulting company to the direct sales industry for over 30 sales
organizations. In 1998 during the Internet gold rush, he founded Shabang.com
building it to a $200M e-commerce corporation as the first Internet product search engine, the
predecessor to Google, Amazon and eBay shopping.
Bob Wood has over 30 years of experience in corporate America designing and building the missioncritical architecture of distributed systems for Fortune 500 corporations. He was published in the
Microsoft Systems Journal, published the blue book on “Re-engineering Software Development” and
presented numerous executive lectures for Fortune 500 corporations on “Re-engineering Software
Development.”
Bob Wood has most recently been immersed in cryptocurrency since early 2014 and has been involved
in the development of three cryptocurrencies. He has been referenced and quoted in many
cryptocurrency news articles and has been a keynote speaker at Independence Conferences
advocating the virtues of cryptocurrency. Bob Wood is an industry analyst, researcher, consumer
advocate and industry watchdog, publishing articles to educate the public on recognizing the
differences between legitimate cryptocurrencies and cryptocurrency scams.
Gary Berriochoa, Chief Operations Officer
Gary is an experienced executive in many areas of corporate operations wearing many
hats as a life-long entrepreneur. Gary worked in manufacturing with General Dynamics
and was a talent manager for the entertainment industry. He worked in direct sales
management with West Bend cookware and introduced the new emerging cell phone technology into
the North Texas market. Gary was a manager of international manufacturing and assembly plants in
Taiwan with Technical Chemical where he also worked as a Quality Control Manager and liaison to
(15)

Underwriters Laboratory. Gary also managed a team of 150 volunteers for the 1994 FIFA World Cup
Soccer tournament in the United States.
Mike Sorensen, Director of Technology
Mike is an experienced IT professional with over 30 years of systems engineering
experience in software, hardware, networking and data centers. He founded a software
development and technology consulting company specializing in technology solutions,
industry specific software and systems integration. Mike has worked, consulted and contracted with
many large companies including CompuCom Systems, Interstate Batteries and Easton-Bell Sports.
Bill Richardson, Financial Controller
Bill is an experienced business professional with a degree in accounting and finance from
the University of Texas at Dallas. Starting in the oil and gas industry, Bill has accumulated
20+ years of business experience in accounting, finance and related technologies, which
includes a background in hardware and financial software solutions, as well as back-end services
involving Internet and e-commerce. Bill’s experience also includes raising private placement capital and
securing strategic financial partnerships.
Jim Anderson, V.P. Business Development
Jim Anderson is a recognized and well-respected professional within the direct sales
industry. During his 29-year career, he has been centrally involved as a consultant, senior
executive and president for some of the industry’s fastest-growing companies. One of the
start-up companies for which he was president grew from 5,000 distributors to more than 140,000
active distributors and annual sales in excess of $120 million within two years. He also served as the
Senior Director for Global Business Development of Mannatech, Inc. He functioned in this capacity
during its greatest growth stage when the company grew from $120 million to over $420 million in
annual sales and to more than 450,000 active distributors.
Dan Williquette, International Marketing Director
Dan is formally educated in Marketing and has successfully built his own wedding
photography & videography business for 20 years. He also has over 30 years of
experience in the direct sales industry proving what works and what does not work. Dan
has mastered a successful marketing strategy that fixes many of the flaws in network marketing. He
has proven with five different companies how to build successful teams in geographic locations that
will not only prevent orphans from struggling in the business, but will create teams of people with ONE
VISION all working together in harmony to successfully reach the highest levels in the compensation
plan.

(16)

Michael Bailey, Localization Director
Michael is a staunch cryptocurrency enthusiast driving the localization of Nexxus Partners
around the world. Michael has a BSc degree, graduating with honors in accounting and
computer science. He has decades of expertise in a wide variety of industries including
music/entertainment, construction, real estate development and property management
as Controller, Accounting Manager, IT Manager and Technical Support Engineer and is fluent in
Spanish. Michael translated all Nexxus University courses and Nexxus Rewards training courses into
Spanish. He is also deeply involved and committed to spirituality-based personal development.
Richard LeBlanc, Creative Director
Richard is a professionally trained guru in the art and science of graphic design and is an
associate professor at Collin College. Richard founded B12 Group as a strategic branding
firm dedicated to energizing business by creating: a look, attitude and place in the world
for the business, memorable brands that cause a stir, award-winning solutions that command
attention, innovative ideas that produce results and insightful plans that convert customers into
advocates.
Dr. Baloch Asif PhD, Chief Security Officer
Asif is a hard-core computer scientist with expertise in all aspects of cyber security and
cryptocurrency development.
Steven Wilkinson, Chief Compliance Officer
Steven is a cryptocurrency business expert, technology consultant and co-founder of the
Texas Bitcoin Conference.

Nexxus Expertise
The Nexxus executive management team has a unique combination of many fields of expertise aiding
in the successful design, development and implementation of the Nexxus solutions.
Technology
The technology staff of Nexxus has over 60 years of disciplined corporate experience in all aspects of
information technology including operating system services, business application software
development and data center operations, maintenance and security.
Nexxus Partner’s software applications are built on the same enterprise quality n-tier architecture as
the largest companies in the world. All Nexxus Partners software is owned and controlled internally by
the Nexxus technology team for maximum responsiveness to changing business requirements.
Cryptocurrency
(17)

Nexxus technologists have been intimately involved in the development of several cryptocurrencies
and have been immersed in the cryptocurrency phenomenon at a technical and business level for
several years. Nexxus prospered through the wild-wild-west frontier stage of cryptocurrency while
working closely with many industry experts and international hackers.

(18)

E-Commerce

Several Nexxus executives founded and worked closely with Shabang.com, a $200M e-commerce
platform for small businesses to sell their products and services on the Internet at the dawn of ecommerce.
Direct Sales
Many Nexxus executives have decades of experience in the direct sales industry as presidents, CTOs,
marketers, sales representatives, technologists and consultants, including technology and business
consulting services provided by the Pinnacle Institute since 2004 for over 30 sales organizations
employing independent direct sales strategies.
Loyalty Marketing
Nexxus executives have several years of experience in the loyalty marketing space for multiple clients
and provided consulting services for an international German-based loyalty company with over
100,000 sales agents.

Nexxus Timeline

(19)

References
FOUNDER BIOGRAPHY: View the Nexxus founder, Robert A. Wood’s professional bio at
http://www.WhoIsBobWood.com/about/
FOUNDER PERSONAL BACKGROUND: View the Nexxus founder, Robert A. Wood’s personal life
experiences, philosophies and accomplishments at http://www.WhoIsBobWood.com.
NEXXUS PARTNERS: View the Nexxus Partners website at http://www.NexxusPartners.com.
NEXXUS REWARDS: View the Nexxus Rewards website at http://www.NexxusRewards.com.
NEXXUS UNIVERSITY: View the Nexxus University website at http://www.NexxusUniversity.com.
NEXXUS COIN: View the Nexxus Coin website at http://www.NexxusCoin.com.
TWITTER NEXXUS REWARDS: View the Nexxus Rewards Twitter page at
https://twitter.com/NexxusReward.

(20)

