CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY
LABOUR-HOURS

THE CHRONOBANK TEAM
CHRONOBANK.IO
INFO@CHRONOBANK.IO

Abstract. This whitepaper abstractly describes a system designed to tokenise labour-hours using blockchain
technology. ChronoBank is a proposed implementation of the described system that can be deployed in several
economic localities. The proposed system leverages smart contract techniques to automate a process whereby
a country-specific ‘labour-hour’ token may be redeemed for real labour-hours via legally binding (traditional)
contracts with labour-offering companies. The proposed ‘stable-coin’ implementation provides a non-volatile,
inflation-resistant digital asset transfer system.

1. Introduction

centralises the entire wealth of the system. Typical stablecoins are also subject to fluctuations in the value of their
underlying asset. While these fluctuations are usually very
small when compared with fluctuations in traditional cryptocurrencies, they are still significant. For example, USDT
is subject to the devaluation of USD due to inflation.
In this paper, we propose a stable cryptocurrency system which addresses the aforementioned drawbacks of
existing stable currency solutions. Specifically, we propose
a new type of token which is not backed by any existing
fiat currency or physical store of wealth, but instead is
backed by legally binding contractual obligations to provide real-world labour-hours. As such, the system and its
controlling entity are not responsible for the centralised
storage and management of wealth. Further, the value of
an unskilled labour-hour in a particular geographic region
naturally adjusts according to economic conditions such
as inflation, thereby maintaining the long-term intrinsic
value of the cryptocurrency.
This paper is organised as follows: In Section 2 we provide an overview of the system as a whole before discussing
the technical details of the necessary system components
and processes. Section 3 provides economic considerations
in brief, regarding the real-world deployment of this system
and its feasibility. Finally, Section 4 discusses future directions and applications of the system and of ChronoBank.
The appendix of this document provides supporting reference of several concepts introduced throughout the paper.
In particular Appendix B and C list the variables that encapsulate the functionality of the system. These variables
are also summarised in Table 1.

With the advent of cryptocurrencies, relatively instant low-cost transfers of value have become a reality.
Blockchain technology, which is a defining feature of most
cryptocurrencies, has recently been applied to solve a great
variety of problems. Currently the most widespread implementation of blockchain technology is Bitcoin [1], which is
a simple asset transfer system. The asset in Bitcoin’s case
is a bitcoin (BTC). The value of this token has seen rapid
variation since its inception in 2009, which has hindered
its feasibility as a global currency.
There have been a variety of attempts to realise the
advantages of blockchain technology while simultaneously
mitigating issues regarding the stability of value for cryptocurrency applications. To achieve this, many attempts
employ the notion of a stable-coin, whereby each token of
value in the system has a counterpart of equal worth stored
in a non-digital and tangible form in the ‘real world’.
Two example implementations of the aforementioned
stable-coin paradigm are listed below:
USDT by Tether[2]:
Each USDT token is backed by an equivalent
amount of United States Dollars (USD) held in
a reserve account by the private company Tether
Limited.
Digix[3]:
Each token is backed by an equivalent amount of
gold, which is stored in reserves by a dedicated
precious metal storage custodian.
In both examples, it is always possible for a token holder
to redeem that token for its counterpart, thus ensuring its
fundamental ‘stable’ value.
Another notable example of a stable-coin is Bitshares [4],
which attempts to decentralise the entire system through
the use of digital Contract For Differences (CFD) [5] interactions. The system presented in this whitepaper does not
attempt to achieve decentralisation, but instead attempts
to address some of the drawbacks surrounding existing
centralised stable-coins. These drawbacks include difficulties regarding the storage of physical or economic wealth,
and the increasing likelihood of attacks, as a single entity

2. The ChronoBank System
Similar to existing stable-coins (such as USDT by Tether
and Digix), we propose a centralised entity that coordinates
the creation, redemption, and destruction of Labour-Hour
Tokens (LHT). We refer to this entity as the ChronoBank
Entity (CBE). It is responsible for the acquisition and
coordination of legally binding contracts for labour, in
addition to the creation and dissemination of LHT. Ultimately the role of the CBE is to ensure the stability
1

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

2

Figure 1. An overview of the ChronoBank system. This diagram shows the system’s constituents and their interactions.
CBE refers to the ChronoBank Entity, LOC to Labour-Offering Companies, LHT to Labour-Hour Tokens and TIME to
the token purchased during the crowdsale.
of the LHT system through careful management of the
system’s underlying processes. This section will provide
details describing the proposed processes, practices, and
operations undertaken by the CBE and its associates. An
overview of the functionality of the ChronoBank system’s
constituents is shown in Figure 1.
The system as a whole is designed with the intent of a
single deployment per economic region. For instance, the
system could be deployed once in Australia using the value
of one labour-hour in the Australian economy, measured in
Australian dollars. As this document is an abstract description of the system, it does not refer to any region-specific
implementation but instead refers to generalised system
parameters that must be tailored for each region. With few
exceptions, all processes and structures described in this
document may have slight variations in implementation
between regions in which ChronoBank operates.
The initial implementation of the CBE will utilise the
Ethereum[6] blockchain; however, future implementations
may tokenise assets on alternative blockchain systems (e.g.
Waves [7], Bitcoin [1]) when it is deemed appropriate.
The CBE provides economic benefit both to the environment in which it is deployed, and to a group of stakeholders
that assist the CBE by providing initial operating capital.
Unlike the region-specific deployment of the CBE system,
only one group of CBE stakeholders (a.k.a. TIME token
holders) exists globally. These stakeholders provide initial
operating capital to the CBE in the form of both fiat and
cryptocurrencies, in exchange for a portion of future profits
attained by the CBE.

2.1. Stakeholders & TIME Tokens
In order to fund the development and operation of the
ChronoBank system, there will be a fundraising phase
known as the crowdsale. During the crowdsale, individuals

may purchase TIME tokens at a fixed rate, which provides
the token holder with the right to receive a proportion of
the profits arising from the operation of the system. In
addition to the entitlements regarding the system’s operating profit, holders of TIME tokens will also be granted
the right to vote on important decisions regarding the
ChronoBank system.
TIME tokens will be developed utilising the Ethereum
ecosystem, specifically leveraging the ERC20 token
standard[8]. The ERC20 specification will be extended to
provide voting functionality and rewards distribution; this
is discussed further in Sections 2.1.3 and 2.1.2 below.
2.1.1. Crowdsale
During the crowdsale, TIME tokens will be created as
necessary and sold at the fixed price of 100 TIME tokens
for 1 bitcoin (BTC). There is no limit to the number of
TIME tokens generated during the crowdsale; however, no
further TIME tokens will be generated after this phase of
the project.
ρ
Total percentage of minted LHT taken by the CBE
fc
Fee taken during minting by the CBE
fr
Fee taken during redemption by the CBE
fi
Issuance fee taken during minting
S
Percentage of minted LHT put into the SGF
LT
Percentage of minted LHT put into the Liquidity Reserve
Percentage of minted LHT used for LOC insurance
L0
M
Number of months until L0 is transferred into the SGF
l
Percentage of LT used for LOC insurance
P
Interval between TIME token reward payouts
Table 1. List of abstract variables and constants used
throughout this paper for reader’s reference. See the Appendix for further details.

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

All TIME tokens purchased during the crowdsale will
constitute 88% of the total TIME tokens generated during the initialisation of the ChronoBank system. The
remaining 12% of tokens will be split with 10% given to
the ChronoBank.io team (for ongoing research and development) and 2% to advisors and early adopters of the
system.

Figure 2. Issuance fees (fi ) and transaction fees (ft ) are
deposited into the rewards contract. TIME holders can
withdraw a portion of the LHT after each snapshot, if their
TIME tokens were deposited into the contract.
2.1.2. TIME Token Rewards
For the use of the LHT, users will be charged a fixed
fee, ft = 0.15% on all transactions. Complementary to
transaction fees, issuance fees (fi ) will be taken during
the minting process (further details in Section 2.2.1). The
issuance fees will start at 3% during the first year of operation and will stepwise decrease by 1% each year until a
final issuance fee of 1% is achieved and maintained.
Both the transaction and issuance fees will be automatically collected and sent to a rewards contract on the
Ethereum blockchain as shown in Figure 2. The rewards
contract is designed such that TIME token holders can
withdraw their earned rewards in a manner that makes
them non-unique (i.e. withdrawal of rewards is not tracked
on a per-token basis) and hence tradeable on exchanges
for equal value.
The rewards contract will allow TIME token holders to
retrieve their rewards at regular payout intervals, P . At
any given stage, TIME holders may deposit their tokens
into the rewards contract. At the onset of a payout interval, a snapshot of deposited TIME tokens and the current
contract reward balance will be taken1. The rewards will
be divided equally among the TIME tokens that were deposited at the time of the snapshot. Depositors may then
withdraw their share of rewards during the following payout interval. At the next payout snapshot, any unclaimed
rewards will be forfeited and added to the total balance of
that snapshot. Figure 3 illustrates this concept by plotting
the rewards contract balance over time. We also note that
we expect P to be of the order of a few months.
TIME holders may deposit and withdraw their TIME
tokens at any stage, however only TIME holders who have
deposited before the snapshot of each payout interval can

3

claim rewards. Withdrawing TIME tokens from the contract will also withdraw any rewards currently owed to
the depositor. TIME holders may also leave their tokens
deposited in the rewards contract indefinitely and claim
their rewards periodically.

Figure 3. The rewards contract receives Pr rewards for
every payout interval P (in our example, we assume that
Pr is constant). At each snapshot, the portion of rewards
that are not withdrawn is d. Rewards that are not withdrawn roll over to the following payout interval P . The
dashed line indicates the withdrawable balance, which reduce over each payout interval as TIME holders withdraw
their rewards.
This reward payout system gives upper bounds to the
amount of rewards that can be stored in the contract in any
interval, under some reasonable assumptions. The total
rewards obtained via fees for a particular payout interval,
P , is Pr . If we assume a constant amount of transaction
and issuance fees per payout interval (i.e. a constant Pr ),
and an average percentage of locked TIME holders that do
not withdraw in any payout interval, d, we can calculate
the upper bound of the LHT stored in the smart contract
through the limiting geometric series relation2:
∞
X

Pr dk = Pr (1 − d)−1 .

(1)

k=0

To clarify this, let us take a conservative estimate, that
90% of all locked TIME token holders do not withdraw
their rewards in every payout interval (only 10% actually
withdraw). In this scenario, no more than 10Pr worth
of rewards will be stored in the rewards contract at any
given time. A less conservative estimate, being 50% of
locked TIME holders withdrawing each payout interval,
will ensure the rewards contract never contains more than
2Pr worth of rewards. Through the careful (and potentially dynamic) choice of P we can find a balance between
practicality (frequency of reward withdrawal) and security
(safe level of stored value in a smart contract).
2.1.3. TIME Voting
From time to time, the CBE may hold polls on the
Ethereum blockchain to elicit the opinion of TIME token
holders. Poll results will be incorporated into decisions
made by the CBE concerning the financial or technical

1The transaction for which may be initiated by anyone, but typically by the CBE.
2Assuming 0 ≤ d < 1.

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

direction and/or implementation of the CBE system. Only
valid TIME holders are considered current stakeholders in
the CBE system and are the only parties authorised to
participate in a poll.

2.2. Labour-Hour Tokens
Labour-Hour Tokens (LHT) are the fundamental unit
of value within the ChronoBank system. The purpose
of these tokens is to provide a non-volatile, inflationaryresistant digital store of value on various blockchains. We
envisage these tokens for utilisation in future systems, such
as LaborX (see Section 4 for a brief overview).
A Labour-Hour Token will be derived from a standard
Ethereum ERC20 token and will be tradeable on all major
exchanges. The ChronoBank system will ensure that these
tokens will always have a 1 to 1 mapping with legally bound
promises of labour-hours from various Labour-Offering
Companies (LOC). As such, token holders may also redeem these tokens at any given time for their real-world
labour-hour counterpart. This section details the various
processes required to feasibly sustain the 1 to 1 mapping
of LHT to offered labour-hours and ensure the economic
stability of the ChronoBank system.

4

• S - A portion to be sent to the Security Guarantee
Fund (SGF) (see Section 2.3.2).
• LT - The total portion sent to the Liquidity Reserve (Section 2.3.1). This fund is further split by
a variable percentage, l, into LI (LOC insurance)
and L0 (liquidity) (see Section 2.3.1 for further
details).
For clarity, we write the obvious explicit relation,
ρ = fc + fi + S + LT .

(2)

We expect that the system will maintain fixed fees, but
will vary S, l and LT (and hence ρ) on a case-by-case basis
to control the stability and viability of the ChronoBank
ecosystem. The purpose of the Liquidity Reserve and Security Guarantee Funds are detailed in the Funds Section
(2.3) and a brief discussion of the economic feasibility of
this system is discussed in Section 3.

2.2.1. Minting
The minting process takes place when a company offering labour-hours (Labour-Offering Company (LOC))
chooses to enter into a legally binding agreement with the
CBE. The CBE must then run strict checks (the guidelines
of which are described in the business outline [9]) of the
LOC wishing to participate in the ChronoBank system.
Once the LOC is approved, the CBE and LOC will negotiate on various parameters (summarised in Appendix
B) before entering a legally binding contract whereby the
LOC promises labour-hours in exchange for LHT (or the
fiat equivalent). The CBE will then publish a hash of the
contract on the Ethereum blockchain and store the contract on a decentralised storage system such as IPFS [10] or
SWARM [11]. This gives a transparent ledger detailing the
current state of the backed LHT. The exact mechanisms
behind the minting process are non-trivial and we refer the
reader to Figures 4 and 5 during the following discussion
of the process. When an LOC and the CBE have agreed
on terms, the CBE mints the equivalent amount of LHT
as labour-hours offered by the LOC, ensuring the 1 to 1
relationship between the two. Of the newly minted tokens,
the CBE will retain ρ percent3, providing the remaining
(1 − ρ) of minted LHT to the LOC. In practice, the CBE
can sell the (1 − ρ) of minted LHT on exchanges and provide the LOC with the fiat equivalent, should they not
wish to deal with cryptocurrencies. The ρ percent held by
the CBE will be immediately subdivided into the following
portions (shown diagrammatically in Figure 5).
• fc ∈ [0, 0.01] - A fee charged by the CBE for
services provided.
• fi - The issuance fee which will go to the rewards contract for TIME token holders (see Section 2.1.2).

Figure 4. Procedural overview of the ChronoBank minting process.

Figure 5. Fund distribution of minted LHT.
2.2.2. Redemption
As LHT are fundamentally backed by real-world labourhours, holders may redeem their tokens at any time
for these backed hours. To do so, holders will deposit
their LHT into a redemption contract on the Ethereum
blockchain. Along with the deposit, holders will provide
relevant data detailing their redemption request, such as

3All percentages introduced in this document should be read as decimals. Hence (1 − ρ) ≥ 0.

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

labour type(s), location(s) of work, date/time of work, contact information, etc. The request will trigger the CBE to
search and match relevant LOCs to the redemption request.
If found, the CBE will return the most suitable LOCs that
fit the request. To discourage recurrent requests and to
remunerate the CBE for its service, the CBE will take a
small fee, fr ∈ [0, 0.01] from the deposited tokens. The
amount of labour-hours matched will be less than or equal
to the LHT tokens deposited, less the CBE’s fee. Any
unmatched requests or unfulfilled hours can be withdrawn
from the redemption contract by the depositor. As a redundancy, the redemption contract will have a built-in
holding period, after which depositors may withdraw their
deposited LHT. This protects depositors from inactive or
stagnant CBEs.
Once the CBE has returned a list of compatible LOCs,
a depositor may accept or reject the offered LOC(s). If
rejected, the depositor can withdraw their deposited LHT
less the CBE’s service fee. If accepted, the CBE will advise
the chosen LOC of all relevant details. The redemption contract will hold the LHT until the work has been completed
and the depositor is satisfied. A dispute resolution system
may be used to ensure work is completed as requested.
Once the labour has been satisfactorily completed, the
deposited LHT will be destroyed, again ensuring the 1 to
1 relationship of LHT to backed labour-hours.
2.2.3. Intrinsic Value
We have thus far ensured a 1 to 1 correspondence between LHT and labour-hours but have not yet defined
the value of either. The intrinsic value of one LHT and
thus one labour-hour is region-dependant. Although any
arbitrary value can be chosen, we peg the value of one
LHT to be roughly the average hourly wage of a region for
practical reasons.
The average hourly wage of a region will be defined
via the official statistics bureau of that specific region. If
one were to trivially adjust the LHT to the most recent
statistics released for a given region, the price of LHT
would stepwise shift on the release date of the statistics.
Typically these statistics are released yearly and in such
scenarios a predictive stepwise jump each year would occur. To implement a smooth transition from one statistics
point to another, we propose that the pegged price of LHT
be a linear interpolation between the two points. This
would require the LHT price to lag behind the most recent
statistics by the duration of at least one extra statistics
release.
Let us illustrate this with a clear example, as depicted in
Figure 6. Let us determine the price of LHT during April,
2010 in a region where the statistics bureau publishes a
data point in January each year. This data point indicates
the average wage in that region for the previous year. The
price will be calculated by retrieving two data points: A2008
and A2009 , the average wage in 2008 (released in January,
2009) and the average wage in 2009 (released in January,
2010) respectively. We take a linear interpolation between
these two points to find the price of LHT in April, 2010.
In this example, this will over-approximate4 the average
wage in April, 2008. This example shows that the LHT
price in April 2010 will be the over-approximated average

5

wage in April 2008, demonstrating how the pegged price
of LHT will lag behind the current actual average wage.
It should be noted that this doesn’t affect any aspects of
offering or redeeming labour. The value of labour offered
or redeemed is independent of the price of a single LHT.
However, the value will be measured with respect to the
fixed price of a single LHT token.

Figure 6. The base price of one LHT in April 2010, X,
can be calculated as the linear interpolation between the
average wage in 2008 and 2009 (A2008 and A2009 ).
For any given region, typically there are sub-regions
which have varying costs associated with providing labour
work. We wish to integrate these costs within our definition of a single LHT. To do so, we take the maximum of
each cost within a sub-region and add it to the average
wage of the region to provide the fundamental price of
LHT. Specifically we have:
L = (1 + max(Y )) X ,

(3)

where X is the linearly interpolated function of average
wages described above and Y is the individual cost in a
sub-region as a percentage of work done. L as defined
in equation (3) is the pegged price of LHT for any given
region. This value will vary linearly throughout each year
in a transparent and predictable manner.

2.3. Funds
The uniqueness of backing a digital token with contractual debt requires various safeguards to ensure contracts
are always upheld and potential defaulting is accounted
for. There are a number of adverse scenarios that can
occur with a debt-backed system. Our proposed solutions
involve the careful maintenance of two extra funds, the
Liquidity Reserve and the Security Guarantee Fund (SGF).
In this section we detail the operation of these funds and
how they address some of the issues that can arise in this
system.
2.3.1. Liquidity Reserve
The liquidity reserve is an offline LHT storage fund
controlled by the CBE. It receives a percentage, LT , of
newly minted LHT during the minting process (Section
2.2.1). There are two services that this function provides
the ChronoBank system:

4This is a poor approximation that assumes a linear growth, where the start of the year is the average wage of that year and the end of
the year the is average wage of the following year.

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

(1) LOC Risk Mitigation - During the minting process,
an LOC will be paid (1 − ρ) percent of the labourhours they contractually agree to provide. Therefore LOCs inherently take some risk in the form
of immediate redemption. If an LOC’s promise of
labour-hours is immediately redeemed, they stand
to lose ρ percent of these hours. To mitigate this,
the CBE will store a percentage of minted LHT,
LI (see Section 2.2.1) for each LOC, to reimburse
the LOC in the event that more than (1−ρ) labourhours are redeemed. LI will cover all excess (i.e.
more than (1 − ρ) ) redeemed tokens until the
reserve, LI , is depleted.
We formalise this by introducing the mitigated
tokens payed to an LOC, LM , as
LM = min(LI , E) .

(4)

where E is the excess LHT to be redeemed by the
LOC, defined as:
(
R − (1 − ρ), if R > (1 − ρ).
E=
(5)
0,
if R ≤ (1 − ρ).
with R being the total percentage of LHT redeemed.
The mitigation reserve, LI is not constant, but
is gradually transferred to the SGF (Section 2.3.2).
The rate at which this fund is transferred is derived from the parameter, M , which specifies the
total number of months until the funds are entirely transferred, and is negotiated during the
minting process. The mitigation reserve funds will
be transferred monthly at a uniform rate (LI /M ).
This procedure then allows the CBE to statistically choose ρ, LT and M given the risk profile
and reputation of any given LOC during the minting process. For example, ρ, LT and M can be
designed such that within a 95 percent confidence
interval, an LOC does not lose more than (ρ − ζ)
worth of the labour-hours promised over a given
time5. Here ζ is a number that quantifies the risk
that the LOC is willing to accept. This degree
of freedom allows the CBE to manage LOCs of
varying risk profiles.
(2) LHT Liquidity - The price of LHT will ultimately
be governed by the price at which the CBE buys
and sells LHT6. The funds used for this are stored
in the Liquidity Reserve. L0 of newly minted tokens (see Section 2.2.1) will be accrued in this
fund. The CBE will then stabilise the price of
LHT and provide liquidity in various markets by
buying and selling LHT at the fundamental price
detailed in Section 2.2.3.
The parameter, l, chosen during contract negotiations, specifies the percentage of LT that goes to
LI (the amount used for LOC insurance and which
is gradually transferred to the Safety Guarantee
Fund) and L0 (the amount that is permanently
used for liquidity). Through careful management
of the parameter, l, the CBE can maintain the
desired volume of funds in the Liquidity Reserve.

6

As this fund will hold both LHT and volatile currencies, care must be taken to manage volume
due to the potential price fluctuations of the held
currencies.
One immediate-use case of this fund will be in
the initial system set-up. When the first LOCs become part of the system, the freshly minted LHTs
will need to be sold to transfer the resulting funds
to the LOC. Initially the demand for LHT will
be low and funds from the Liquidity Reserve will
be used to bootstrap this process. A percentage
of the crowdsale funds will be deposited into the
Liquidity Reserve for this purpose.
2.3.2. Security Guarantee Fund
One of the major drawbacks in a debt-backed currency
system is the possibility of backers (LOC in our case) defaulting on their contractual obligations. Despite the care
in vetting LOCs during the minting process, we expect
there to be a percentage of companies that will inevitably
default. The SGF’s main purpose is to provide a fund reservoir as insurance to protect against defaulting companies.
In practice, this fund will burn held LHT tokens to the
equivalent amount of outstanding labour-hours promised
by the defaulting LOC.
Statistical estimates should be taken for the average
probability of LOCs defaulting. These estimates will give a
measure defining the amount of LHT that should be stored
inside the SGF fund at any given time. The amount stored
in the SGF will be proportional to the amount of debt, and
hence be proportional to the amount of LHT in existence
(as every LHT is backed by one owed labour-hour). This
required value can be reached and maintained through the
management of the minting variables, S, l and LT .

3. Economic Considerations
In this section we briefly mention some interesting properties and immediate economic consequences of this system.

3.1. Economic Incentives
First and foremost, the system must be designed such
that there are economic incentives for both LOCs and LHT
holders to participate in the system. For an LOC, the incentive to participate in the ChronoBank system comes in
the form of an interest-free-like loan. When an LOC agrees
to participate in the system and offers labour-hours, the
company effectively receives an interest-free loan, which
needs to be paid back when their contract expires. For
this to be enticing to an LOC, we require that over the
period of the contract the amount of money paid for the
service of the loan is less than that of alternate means for
loans, e.g. local bank loans.
We consider a simplistic example to demonstrate the
feasibility of such a scenario. Consider that a bank loan,
which charges IB percent in interest per annum, has an
upfront cost of C and is of total amount H. Over a period of time, t, and assuming no regular repayments are

5This can occur because the holdings of an LOC increase over time due to assumed external investment.
6Combined with the fact that one LHT has a fundamental intrinsic value of one labour-hour.
7We use a no-repayment loan to clarify the analogy to our system and remove some mathematical complexity which obscures our point.

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

necessary7, the LOC stands to lose:
C + H((1 + IB )t − 1) − HII t .

(6)

The first term corresponds to the upfront cost of the loan,
the second term to total interest owed at time, t, and
the final term is potential interest earnings from external
investments. Here we’ve defined an average yearly interest
gain from external investments, II .
Alternatively, the LOC may participate with the
ChronoBank system. If the LOC offers H hours of labour,
it would receive H(1 − ρ) LHT in return, and would be
required to pay (1 + σt)H worth of LHT back upon the
expiration of the contract (assumed at time, t). Here σ is a
percentage representing the average yearly price increase8
of LHT. It quantifies an inflated price of LHT due to an
assumed increase in average wage over the contract period.
Therefore, with the ChronoBank system, the LOC stands
to lose,
H(ρ + σt) − (1 − ρ)HII t .

(7)

The first term here originates from the initial sum taken
by ChronoBank, Hρ, and from the price fluctuation of
LHT over time. The second term comes from the potential
earnings from external investments with the (1 − ρ)H LHT
received.
In this simplistic example, an LOC would be economically incentivised to participate in the ChronoBank system
if the total fees of the ChronoBank system are less than
the total fees of the alternative bank loan, explicitly:

H(ρ + (σ + ρII )t) < C + H (1 + IB )t − 1 . (8)
Here, (σ + ρII ) represents the average yearly price fluctuation of LHT combined with ρ percent of an average
expected investment return. With the reasonable assumption that this quantity is less than the interest rate of a
bank loan, IB , equation (8) can always be satisfied for
some time period, t, given all other variables fixed. In
fact, the longer the contractual time, t, the greater the
cost-saving is to the LOC. So in this simplistic example, we
can see that this system incentivises LOCs to participate
in the ChronoBank system for longer periods of time9.
Furthermore, the CBE and LOC are able to adjust both
H and ρ during the negotiations of their initial contractual
agreement, enabling the tuning of economic incentives in
less favourable economic regions/scenarios.
As for LHT holders, their economic incentive is more
obvious. LHT, compared to its stable-coin predecessors, is
inflationary-resistant. Therefore, holders should have an
economic incentive to use LHT as its value should increase
relative to local inflationary fiat currencies. We should
note that buying and holding LHT as an investment (and
therefore decreasing the liquidity of the token) is not in a
holder’s best interest, as the gains in doing so are often
less than external investment strategies.

3.2. System Stability
This section is concerned with the ability of the
ChronoBank system to sustain various economic hurdles,
which we refer to as its stability.

7

The stability of the ChronoBank system hinges on the
CBE correctly managing the minting process. Through
the minting process, the two funds, Liquidity Reserve and
SGF, are controlled and maintained.
As the system grows, funds will accrue in both the Liquidity Reserve and the SGF. LHT is only removed from
the SGF in the event of an LOC defaulting. The Liquidity
Reserve only decreases in value in the event that a held
volatile currency devalues. Therefore, both funds should
grow as the system evolves. As the funds reach a sustainable level, the percentage of LHT taken during the minting,
ρ, can be decreased, further enhancing the economic incentive for more LOCs to join the system. A greater number
of LOCs participating will mean a greater number of LHT
in existence and a greater volume of funds accrued in both
the SGF and Liquidity Reserve. The stability of the system
will be proportional to the value stored in the SGF and
Liquidity Reserve and, therefore, we expect the system to
become more stable as it develops.

3.3. Potential Pitfalls
A number of potential pitfalls can occur during the operation of this system. In this section we briefly summarise
the major and most obvious ones, along with our proposed
solutions.

• An LOC defaulting on its promise of labour-hours.
As previously mentioned, this will be covered by
the SGF. The CBE will burn the necessary LHT
from the SGF fund to maintain the 1 to 1 relation
of LHT to labour-hours.
• Large supply/demand causing price fluctuations.
This can be handled by a sufficiently deep Liquidity Reserve, which will provide demand in times
of high supply and vice versa. Initially funds from
the crowdsale will be placed into the liquidity fund,
and as the system grows the liquidity fund will be
maintained at a level deemed operationally safe
to cover this scenario.
• Redemption of all LHT. The LHT at any given
time will always be backed by contractual labourhours in a 1 to 1 mapping. Therefore, this scenario
is possible and the system will continue to function
in this event. However, the risk in this occurrence
lies with the participating LOCs, who will be required to pay back their LHT in the form of labour.
The SGF (Section 2.3.1) can also absorb some of
the cost of this scenario. It will be at the CBE’s
discretion to use the SGF to assist in this very
unlikely scenario.
• Increased demand at contract expiry. As a contract expires, an LOC will be required to buy back
an equivalent amount of LHT to the labour-hours
that are left on the contract. This could potentially create periods of large demand. In these
scenarios, we will counter the demand with the
Liquidity Reserve and, if necessary, the SGF.

8This could also potentially decrease.
9Adding regular repayments to bank loans adds complexity to this simplistic example and although decreasing the size of the right-hand

side of equation (8) it does not change our final result.

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

8

4. Future Work

5. Conclusion

Economic Models. Key to the success of the ChronoBank
system is an informed choice of the aforementioned economic parameters. It is essential to perform further analysis so as to determine how parameter modification impacts
the feasibility and sustainability of the system in a wider
context. This will necessarily be performed before a realworld implementation is constructed.
LaborX. The digital asset transfer system described in
this document is proposed as a first step towards a larger
decentralised labour system. LHT as described by this
paper forms the base currency for a decentralised labour exchange platform entitled LaborX. The intention of LaborX
is to enable peer-to-peer exchange of labour-hours with
LHT, thereby reducing the centralisation of the proposed
ChronoBank system. LaborX will incorporate a rating
system whereby holders of LHT can identify fair trades by
examining the quality and/or specialisation of the labour
provider, given their history on the platform. By enabling
direct exchange of LHT with labour-hours, the system’s
dependency on contractual arrangements with LOCs is
significantly reduced. This potentially reduces the cost
and increases the stability of the system as a whole.

This paper proposes a non-volatile, inflationaryresistant, digital asset transfer system. This innovative
system is only made possible by recent advancements in
blockchain and cryptographic technologies. Leveraging
these technologies, this system tokenises contractual debt
in a manner that can be both economically feasible and
highly practical for digital platforms, such as LaborX. The
intrinsic value of the proposed token mirrors the average
hourly rate of human labour - the most fundamental unit
of economic value.

References
[1] Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash
system. 2008.
[2] Tether.to. Tether: Fiat currencies on the bitcoin blockchain.
2014.
[3] Anthony C. Eufemio Kai C. Chng Shaun Djie. Digix’s whitepaper: The gold standard in crypto-assets. 2016.
[4] Fabian Schuh Daniel Larimer. Bitshares 2.0: Financial smart
contract platform. 2015.
[5] Investopedia. Contract for difference.
[6] Gavin Wood. Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised
transaction ledger. Ethereum Project Yellow Paper, 2014.
[7] Sasha Ivanov. Waves whitepaper. 2016.
[8] Ethereum Request for Comments (ERC) 20.
[9] The ChronoBank Team. ChronoBank: Business Outline.
[10] IPFS: A peer-to-peer hypermedia protocol to make the web
faster, safer, and more open.
[11] Viktor Tron Aron Fisher Daniel A. Nagy. SWARM.

CHRONOBANK - PHASE 1: A NON-VOLATILE DIGITAL TOKEN BACKED BY LABOUR-HOURS

9

Appendix A. Terminology
The following is a list of terms used throughout this document.
• CBE - The ChronoBank Entity.
• LHT - Labour-Hour Token.
• LOC - Labour-Offering Company.
• SGF - Security Guarantee Fund.

Appendix B. Minting Contract Parameters
There are number of parameters that are required to be negotiated during the minting process. For clarity we list here
the variables that should be considered and determined by the CBE during the minting process:
• S - A percentage of the minted tokens to be stored in the Security Guarantee Fund.
• LT - The total percentage to be stored in the liquidity fund.
• l - The percentage of LT dictating how much of the liquidity fund is used as LOC insurance, LI . The remaining
funds will be kept for liquidity in L0 .
• M - The total number of months until the LOC Insurance LI is transferred to the Security Guarantee Fund.
This dictates the rate at which the funds are transferred, i.e. LI /M per month.
• Expiry Date - The expiry date of the contract, whereby the LOC must buy back the value of the minted LHT.
Through the definition of the above variables, the CBE on a case-by-case basis will fix ρ, the total percentage deducted
from LOCs initially through the relation (2).

Appendix C. Fee Summary
The fees of the ChronoBank system can be summarised in the following:
• fc - This is the fee taken by the CBE during the minting process for services rendered. We expect fc ∈ [0, 0.01].
• fi - This is the issuance fee, which will be taken during minting and deposited into the TIME token holder’s
rewards contract. This will start at 3 percent and decrease by 1 percent each year until it is maintained at a
steady 1 percent.
• ft - These are transaction fees, which are deposited into the TIME token holders rewards contract. This is a flat
fee of 0.15%.
• fr - This is a fee taken by the CBE during the redemption process for services provided and to add a deterrent
to continual redemption requests. We expect fc ∈ [0, 0.01].

