ABSTRACT:
This whitepaper describes a comprehensive platform for remote online
real estate transactions using Smart Contracts. Propy is a proposed
implementation of this platform, which intends to reduce reliance on
intermediaries while improving liquidity and security.
CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION........................................................................................... 3
1.1 BACKGROUND........................................................................................ 3
1.2 THE PROBLEM....................................................................................... 3
1.3 THE SOLUTION....................................................................................... 4
1.4 BLOCKCHAIN AS A NEW STANDARD FOR PROPERTY REGISTRIES......... 5
1.5 TECHNOLOGY LIMITATIONS................................................................... 6
1.6 SMART CONTRACTS FOR THE EXISTING LEGAL FRAMEWORK............. 7
1.7 TOWARDS A DECENTRALIZED P2P SYSTEM.......................................... 9
1.8 REGULATION CHANGE........................................................................... 9
2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1.............................................................................. 11
2.1 PROPY - ONLINE PROPERTY STORE...................................................... 11
2.2 PROPY REGISTRY - GLOBAL TITLE REGISTRY........................................ 13
2.2.1 PROPY REGISTRY SMART CONTRACTS ARCHITECTURE............. 14
2.3 COMPLEMENTARY SOFTWARE COMPONENTS................................... 17
2.3.1 PROPY EXPLORER........................................................................ 17
2.3.2 API LIBRARIES............................................................................. 19
2.3.3 DATA STANDARDS....................................................................... 19
2.4 TRANSACTION PLATFORM V.1. PROTOTYPE WORKFLOW................... 20
3. PROPY PLATFORM V.2 FOR DECENTRALIZED P2P SALES........................ 23
3.1 OVERVIEW........................................................................................... 23
3.2 SMART CONTRACTS PARTICIPANTS..................................................... 23
3.3 WORKFLOW......................................................................................... 24
4. BUSINESS MODEL..................................................................................... 25
5. PROPY TOKEN (PRO)................................................................................. 26
5.1 INTRODUCTION................................................................................... 26
5.2 REGISTRY FEES..................................................................................... 27
5.3 TOKEN FLOW OVERVIEW.................................................................... 27
5.4 ECONOMIC MODEL............................................................................. 27
5.5 PROPY REGISTRY FEE USAGE............................................................... 28
5.6 NETWORK GROWTH............................................................................ 28
5.7 DONATIONS......................................................................................... 29
5.8 COMPANY............................................................................................ 30
6. CONCLUSION............................................................................................. 31

PROPY WHITE PAPER

2

1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 BACKGROUND
Throughout history, real estate has arguably served as the most stable
store of value. Together with labor, as Adam Smith noted in The Wealth
of Nations, land serves as not only a store but a producer of wealth1. Real
estate’s popularity over the years has been derived from the fact that not
only is land typically an asset which nearly always appreciates in value, but
also is often an income-producing asset, generating further capital wealth
for its owners. While beneficial for 16th-century nobles to find a safe
place to store value, real estate’s illiquidity nowadays presents significant
inefficiencies for investors, especially those buying properties abroad.
Despite these inefficiencies, the overseas property market is significant
and growing. Between 2009 and 2016 the demand for cross-border real
estate transactions increased 334% from $65 billion to $340 billion2. We
believe this market should be and can be much, much larger.
1.2 THE PROBLEM
Today, the global real estate market is worth $217 trillion and makes up
more than half the value of all mainstream assets worldwide3. One great
differentiator between real estate and other major asset classes is liquidity.
Compared to exchange-traded securities such as equities and government
bonds, real estate markets are not as organized or efficient as other
markets, with incredibly slow transaction times and less efficient price
discovery mechanisms. As a result, substantial capital is trapped in less
liquid investments, often concentrated in certain geographic areas devoid
of domestic investment opportunities. While many investors with excess
liquidity would welcome the opportunity to invest in foreign real estate
assets, there are currently substantial impediments to such investment
activity.
China is an excellent example of this problem. Currently, Chinese citizens
are among the largest groups of foreign investor in the U.S. real estate

Smith, A. The Wealth of Nations. 1776.
Savills, Around the World in Dollars and Cents. 2017.
3
Savills, Around the World in Dollars and Cents. 2017.
1
2

PROPY WHITE PAPER

3

1. INTRODUCTION

market. Chinese investors own over $28 billion in U.S. residential property4.
However, the total value of the U.S. residential real estate market is over
$29 trillion5. Foreign investment in the U.S. residential sector could be
potentially equal to hundreds of billions of dollars if foreign investors
were properly educated on how to invest and provided with the facility to,
among other things, close real estate transactions online. In the current
market, Chinese who intend to invest in foreign real estate mainly rely on
family and friends to obtain referrals to local brokers, who in turn work with
international brokers in selling a property. This process is time-consuming,
involves too many intermediaries, and often, the property the buyers are
seeking for is sold to another investor before the process is complete.
The core of the problem is the lack of international standards or
comprehensively available platforms for the electronic transfer and
recording of real estate. Each country (and in some cases, as in the
United States, even individual counties) maintains its own registry
and establishes national (or local) rules for property deed registration
and transfers. Moreover, legacy property rights registry systems were
developed to handle local real estate transfers but are ill-equipped to
handle international ownership transfers. As a result, there is an inferior
experience for people on both sides of the marketplace. Additionally, the
informality of procedures prevalent in certain jurisdictions makes them
particularly susceptible to fraud or tampering. There is currently no single
tool available that allows a property investor to research, pay for, and
reliably secure and record ownership of international property online.
1.3 THE SOLUTION
Propy aims to solve the problems facing international real estate transactions
by creating a novel unified property store and asset transfer platform for the
global real estate industry. Initially the Propy Registry will mirror official land
registry records in which transfers of real estate are recorded. Ultimately,
however, Propy’s vision is that jurisdictions will adopt the Propy Registry as
their official ledger of record such that the transfer of a property on the

4
5

Global elite buys trophy apartments. Financial Times. 2015
How Much is Every Home in America Worth? A Lot. Zillow Research. 2016

PROPY WHITE PAPER

4

1. INTRODUCTION

Propy Registry constitutes the legal transfer of the property and the legal
registration of that transfer. By leveraging Propy Registry and Propy’s smart
contracts platform, unnecessary delays and impediments inherent to legacy
property rights registrations systems could be eliminated. The Propy platform
seeks to enhance the security of transactions while reducing inefficiencies
through its innovative use of mobile, cloud and blockchain technologies
linking buyers, sellers, investors and registries around the world.
1.4 BLOCKCHAIN AS A NEW STANDARD FOR PROPERTY REGISTRIES
Blockchain technology holds great promise for a range of industries and
use cases, including real estate. A blockchain is a type of shared database,
the contents of which are verified and agreed upon by a network of
independent actors. In order for a new piece of data (such as the new
owner of a transferred property) to be added to the blockchain, the
independent verifiers must come to consensus as to its validity.
Because each new set of transactions (a “block”) is cryptographically linked
to the previous block, it is extraordinarily difficult to change data stored
in a blockchain and any such change would be readily detectable. Thus
blockchains are widely considered to be immutable and thus can serve as
a record of proof of ownership.
When transacting in a blockchain platform, each user makes use of a public
address (needed for other actors in the network to send a transaction to
that user), and a cryptographically paired “private key.” Private keys are
used to sign transactions digitally, a form of authentication to ensure that
a given user has genuinely generated a transaction.
Blockchain is a relatively new technology. The first implementation of
blockchain, Bitcoin, launched in 2009. The Ethereum blockchain was
released in 2015. In addition to the distributed ledger capability of the
Bitcoin blockchain, the Ethereum blockchain allows so-called “smart
contracts,” which are programs stored in the Ethereum blockchain that
can act autonomously to execute sophisticated transactions6.

6

“Ethereum Whitepaper”, https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper, 2016

PROPY WHITE PAPER

5

1. INTRODUCTION

The rise of Ethereum and other smart contract platforms has allowed the
creation of decentralized applications, or DApps. A DApp is an application
whose entire or partial backend code runs on a decentralized ledger with
a user interface to facilitate interaction with the blockchain code7. Code
written to the blockchain is publically accessible, and since the code is
running on multiple computers, there is no central point of failure.
Blockchain is currently considered one of the most secure technologies for
digital asset transfer due to its distributed nature and use of sophisticated
cryptography. Smart contacts, therefore, offer a potential solution for the
management of real estate transactions via the introduction of a universal,
distributed ledger that does not require trust in a single third party.
1.5 TECHNOLOGY LIMITATIONS
The main limitations of blockchain technology today are:
1.	Transaction time, which is currently ten minutes on average for
Bitcoin (blockchain.info) and seventeen seconds on average for
Ethereum (ethstats.net);
2.	The cost for each transaction/smart contract execution; and
3.	The limited ability of the network to interface with real-world
information.
Despite these limitations, Propy believes that blockchain technology is
well suited as a solution to conduct real estate transactions, because the
number of transactions in real estate trading is relatively low due to the
nature of the sector and the relatively high value of real estate assets. In
addition the current transaction time for recording on blockchain is not a
limitation for the Propy’s solution because otherwise it requires weeks or
months to acquire a property and complete a transfer of ownership.

7

“Your First DApp”, https://dappsforbeginners.wordpress.com/tutorials/your-first-dapp/, 2017.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

6

1. INTRODUCTION

1.6 SMART CONTRACTS FOR THE EXISTING LEGAL FRAMEWORK
Propy’s engineering team has designed a real estate transaction tool
powered by smart contracts, combining solutions from the legal, blockchain
and payments industries. Using blockchain technology, Propy has prototyped
some of the core technology that will become the Propy Registry as a DApp
that allows each party to a real estate transaction — including the broker,
buyer, seller and title agent/notary—to sign off on a transaction for properties
located in California, which is Propy’s intended first market. The workflow
of the processes has been built to meet the market rules within the legacy
property rights registry systems currently existing in the state of California.
The goal of launching the Propy platform only in California at first is to allow
the current prototype to be narrowly focused on driving consumer testing,
adoption and improvements within a closed test market. Thereupon, Propy
will seek to implement the Propy solution and drive continuous rapid growth
throughout key markets around the world.
Ultimately, the Propy Registry will make it possible for every single step of a
real estate transaction, from the buyer’s reservation of the property to the
signing of the purchase agreements for the delivery of the title deeds, to be
recorded on blockchain and executed with smart contracts.
However, due to blockchain’s new and innovative nature, Propy recognizes
the existence of regulatory and infrastructure limitations in the current
technology as applicable to real estate transactions and is in the process of
building a multi-stage solution to be gradually phased in over time.
The first iteration of the Propy DApp (which includes a centralized interface
and decentralized smart contracts) intends to streamline existing real estate
market processes by, among other things, reducing the need to rely on the
multiple intermediaries currently involved in the real estate transactions.
While aspects of the process will be partly decentralized, it will primarily
make the current real estate transfer process easier to manage and more
transparent. As it develops, Propy intends to transition towards a pure
P2P decentralized system that obviates the need for most of the existing
intermediaries involved in real estate transactions today. We note that certain
intermediaries performing physical functions such as property inspection
will remain part of the transaction process at least in the immediately

PROPY WHITE PAPER

7

1. INTRODUCTION

foreseeable future. The final stage in that evolution would be the adoption
of the Propy Registry as the legal ledger of record for real estate title
transfers in a given jurisdiction. Based on the founders’ many years of crossborder property purchase experience to date, we anticipate that emerging
markets, hungry for investments in real estate and less encumbered by
entrenched special interests, such as bureaucracy, corruption and too many
intermediaries, will see the benefits of a pure P2P transaction model. Propy
has already begun the process of accelerating this transition across multiple
metropolitan markets by talking to governments, local lawyers and local real
estate players. The team has developed a network of brokers in the UAE, UK,
U.S. and a pipeline of international customers from Asia.

FIGURE 1. Development Roadmap.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

8

1. INTRODUCTION

1.7 TOWARDS A DECENTRALIZED P2P SYSTEM
Traditionally, international standards are established via conventions, laws
and regulations enacted by governments. As a result of the lack of standards
with international scope, the current electronic land title registry solutions
function as multiple incompatible sets of siloed data which must be manually
parsed and translated to work with external platforms. The Propy Registry
can solve that problem. In order to do so, and for the Propy Registry to
ultimately deliver on its full promise, it will need to transition from a ledger
that mirrors official land registry ledgers to being the official ledger of record.
For a government to adopt this technology, it would need to recognize the
legality of the electronic deeds and the ledger. Propy is actively engaging
with local and state governments to accelerate the acceptance of the
Propy Registry as a legally valid ledger of record for real estate transfers.
Additionally, Propy is working with the governments of several emerging
countries where, due to systems’ inefficiencies, corruption and the lack of
regulatory complexity, a transition to a new system is expected to be more
straightforward; the specific countries to be disclosed in due course as
partnerships are confirmed.
1.8 REGULATION CHANGE
There are two possible legislative environments we are currently
preparing for:
1.	The first one would be the current context, where governments
recognize their legacy databases as the exclusive legal evidence of
ownership. In this environment, Propy intends to initially conduct
business and thus, the current development of Propy is geared towards
mirroring government records in the blockchain with the goal of
providing a platform for foreign real estate investors to conveniently
and remotely carry out property transactions. The Propy Registry
acts as a source of fast delivered evidence of property transfer for
brokers and serves as a mirror of the ownership transfers currently
taking place at the title registries of the targeted markets (U.S., UK,
UAE). Brokers who focus on foreign real estate investments, have
expressed the need to have available technology that could allow

PROPY WHITE PAPER

9

1. INTRODUCTION

the online processing of real estate purchases with the additional
layers of security that the Propy Registry intends to provide.
2.	The second legislative environment would arise when progressive
governments start recognizing the benefits of ownership transfers
on blockchain as a more desirable alternative instead of trying
to continue to enhance the existing real estate registries. The
widespread adoption of a blockchain system to manage real estate
titles positions Propy to provide a sole, decentralized source of
validation for real estate transactions.

BEFORE PROPY:
Offline steps

Registry

Bank X

Escrow Agent*
Title Deed

Buyer

Portals

Manual
Processing

Ownership Verification

Title Agent*

Ownership Recording
Land Registry

Seller
Attorney for Title
Delay or Risk

*
Bank Y

Notary

Title insurance and title
agent are relevant for the
US. In some countries the
role of the title agents
is played by others, i.e.
notary and lawyers.

FIGURE 2. Legacy title transfer.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

10

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1
Propy consists of multiple software components, as further described
below.
2.1 PROPY - ONLINE PROPERTY STORE
Propy is an online global real estate store, allowing buyers, sellers, brokers,
and escrow/title agents/notaries to come together through the utilization
of a suite of smart contracts to facilitate transactions. Propy provides a
network for these actors to connect with each other and conduct real
estate purchases online.
The culmination of the transaction is a digital transfer of ownership on the
Propy Registry. For more information about these processes and smart
contracts, please refer to section 3.
As of the date of this paper, the Propy DApp has been developed to
allow users to find properties and initiate the purchase process. The
current system consists of the following features and primary functions:
•	 Web-based platform Propy & iOS App
Propy;
•	 Messenger;
•	 Localization in site and application is
available in Chinese, Russian, and Arabic;
•	 Brokers’ activity (check-ins, reviews);
•	 Module for data aggregation and
standardization of property listings.
Currently works with eight types of data
feeds;
•	 Off-market subscription providing access
to locked property listings;
•	 Neighbourhood data: air-pollution, walk
score, schools; and
•	 Reservation fee payment.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

11

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

The existing product uses the following technology:
A.	Server: C# with .NET Web API Service, MongoDB Database with
two replica sets, OAuth authentication, all services hosted on
Microsoft Azure;
B.	iOS Application Client: ObjectiveC, supports all phones with
minimum version of iOS8 - https://itunes.apple/us/app/propybuy-rent-properties/id1017369540?mt=8;
C.	Website, www.propy.com: ASP.NET 4, MVC 5, React.js; and
D.	Web-based Transaction Platform prototype: open Ethereumbased blockchain, Java, web3, truffle.
In the future, Propy intends to use a distributed database to store listings as
an intermediate step along the way to a decentralized solution. The mobile
app and the desktop application would have a digital wallet to store Propy
Utility Tokens (PROs) and users would be able to store in those wallets the
PROs that they collect via the rewards programs that are further described
in Section 5 below.
	

PROPY WHITE PAPER

12

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

2.2 PROPY REGISTRY - GLOBAL TITLE REGISTRY
Each property has a unique title that serves as evidence of ownership. The
ownership of properties is usually tracked by the recordation of such titles in
organized property registries which are managed by regional governmental
organizations. As previously discussed, Propy aims to develop the Propy
Registry with the ultimate goal of becoming a global registry for title deed
ownership information, which would be made available to worldwide
entities, similar to a DNS8 system for website domains.

WITH PROPY AND BLOCKCHAIN

Title Deed

Buyers’ Banks

Payment

Ownership Verification

Buyer
Approve
Unified distributed Ledger
with Smart Contracts

Current Title / Land Registry

Ownership Recording

Payment

Title Deed
Seller

Sellers’Banks

FIGURE 3. Interaction of transaction participants via the blockchain,
described in further detail in Section 2.4

Domain Name Servers (DNS) are the Internet’s equivalent of a phone book. They maintain
a directory of domain names and translate them to Internet Protocol (IP) addresses.
8

PROPY WHITE PAPER

13

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

As the Propy Registry evolves into a system that enables buyers to validate
real estate transactions legally, Propy intends to include a modular system
to allow regional governments to provide country-specific rules and
regulations related to real estate transactions that would be incorporated
into the Propy’s smart contracts platform. The set of smart contracts
developed to date are able to assist executing a real estate purchase within
the current market and legal infrastructure in California, i.e. in compliance
with rules and policies of escrow and title companies and in compliance
with the California laws governing the recording and purchase process
rules.
2.2.1 PROPY REGISTRY SMART CONTRACTS ARCHITECTURE
Propy Registry consists of multiple contracts interacting with each
other, and follows a microservices architecture approach9. Each
contract is responsible for a single type of record in the system. Each
contract contains functions that allow the creation and modification of
records, contract updates and other administrative functions.
The list of contracts that have been developed to date and a brief
description of their functions are listed below:
A.	Title Contract:
a.	Responsible for storing and updating property metadata
on the blockchain; and
b.	The PROs are used to unlock the services within the
Propy platform that would permit creating and updating
property records.
B.	Deed Contract:
a.	Manages relevant information for Escrow services;
b.	Tracks and initiates the invitation of participants in the
transaction (i.e. title agent); and
c.	 Requires PROs to create and update deed related records.

Microservice architecture is a method of developing software applications as a suite of
independently deployable, small, modular services in which each service runs a unique
process and communicates through a well-defined, lightweight mechanism to serve a
business goal.
9

PROPY WHITE PAPER

14

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

SMART CONTRACTS
TITLE
CONTRACT

DEED
CONTRACT

IDENTITY
CONTRACT

Titles

Deeds

Identities

Administrator
Pub. key
(Propy)

Administrator
Pub. key
(Propy)

Administrator
Pub. key
(Propy)

PROPY
WEBSITE & APP
Identity Verification

Registry
administrator
ECDSA private key

ECDSA
Private Key

Title Deed
Recording
Recording Office /
Land Registry

Identity
Data
(private)

Transfer
Notary Office /
Title Company

FIGURE 4. Interaction between the Propy smart contracts and the real
world data.
C.	Identity Contract:
a.	Stores multiple records with identity information for all
users of the system; and
b.	Contains KYC features for verifying legal identity.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

15

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

The list of contracts which are currently under development and a
brief description of their functions are listed below:
A.	Agreements Contract:
a.	Stores instances of various legal agreements (purchase
agreements, inspection reports, disclaimers), that need to
be digitally signed for Deed transactions.
B.	Electronic Signatures Contract:
a.	Stores digital signatures for all documents, participating in
the Propy Registry;
b.	Allows to having multiple signatories acting in different
capacities in the same document; and
c.	 Validates digital signature’s format.	

IDENTITY

TITLE

ID
Name
Signature

ID
Address
Status
Current Owner

DEED
ID
Seller_ID
Buyer_ID
Status*
Propy_ID
* Status:
•	 waiting for deposit
•	 security deposit received
•	 full payment received
•	 payment released

AGREEMENTS
ID
Doc Type
Deed ID

ROLE
WHITELIST

ELECTRONIC
SIGNATURE
Agreement ID
Role
Signature ID
Signature Hash

Person ID
Role

FIGURE 5.
Smart contracts architecture.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

16

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

C.	Payments Contract:
a.	Manages the initiation of payment requests.
b.	Tracks status of payment requests.
c.	 Confirms authenticity of payments using variations
of SPV algorithm (Simplified Payment Verification).
Specific implementations will vary depending on each
payment processor.
D.	Escrow Contracts:
a.	Contains Escrow/Title Agent functionality (adding
data about the escrow account number, title transfer
signing).
b.	Allows a verified Escrow Agent to lock and release
payments.
c.	 Individual Parties Contracts: related to a particular real
person. Contains KYC features.
The fig. 5 diagram visualizes the information, roles and interaction
between each of the smart contracts, described above.
The following participants are involved in different capacities in
the smart contracts:
1.	Seller
2.	Buyer
3.	Broker
4.	Escrow/Title Agent (or Notary)
5.	Recording Office (or Title Registry)
6.	Money Transmitter
7.	Real Estate Inspector
2.3 COMPLEMENTARY SOFTWARE COMPONENTS
Propy will seek to develop a number of complementary software
components for the Propy Registry to accelerate the growth of the network.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

17

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

2.3.1 PROPY EXPLORER
The contract explorer, Propy Explorer, is an open and extensible front
end which acts as a gateway for accessing information about properties
and transactions in the Propy Registry, as well as Propy Utility Tokens.
For more details about Propy Utility Tokens, please see section 5.
Propy Explorer intends to provide a sleek interface, within which
users can search within the Propy Registry. Propy Explorer receives
data from two locations: Propy’s central database, and Propy Registry.
Propy Registry only handles real estate title ownership, while more
sizeable data, such as images, property description, purchase
agreement content, come from Propy’s central database (storage may
be decentralized in the future). Users view transactions within those
databases through Propy Explorer.

PROPY EXPLORER
GLOBAL LISTING
STATISTICS

Search

ACTIVE
PROPERTIES

Properties
Owners
Transactions
Total $ spent
$ spent this payout period

Address
Status Change
Value Estimate
Address
Status Change
Value Estimate

ACTIVE
USERS
Name
Properties
Name
Properties
Name
Properties

RECENT TRANSACTIONS
Address
Status Change
Value Estimate

Ownership
Purchased by:

Name
Properties

FIGURE 6. Propy Explorer UI Mockup.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

18

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

2.3.2 API LIBRARIES
Propy is developing API libraries to enable easy access to registry
data for third-party applications. The libraries interact directly with
the smart contracts and do not rely on the availability of the Propy
website or other centralized components.
2.3.3 DATA STANDARDS
Propy plans to develop standards for storing real estate title deeds on
the blockchain, which would consist of a set of metadata such as the
address, owner details, right typology, property typology, coordinates,
property condition. The Propy team has extensive experience and
in-depth knowledge of the real estate market in the U.S., European
countries, the Middle East and China. That experience is intended to
help build universal data standards, constructed from the metadata
enumerated above, that can be adopted globally.
Propy standards and developer’s APIs are intended to empower an
entire ecosystem of real estate applications.
Propy has undertaken the challenging mission of developing industryaccepted data standards for real estate transactions, being cognizant
of the present obstacles associated with interoperable data and
metadata that have been growing in industries such as for example
geospatial technologies (Open Geospatial Consortium), electronics
(Sematech), medical devices, and other activities.
Typically, interoperability standards definitions proceed most
successfully through a strategic mixture of:
A.	Mapping the ecosystem of stakeholders who generate, use,
analyze and repurpose the data;
B.	Designing a prototype platform demonstrating the economic
and technical costs, risks and inability to reuse or trust data
exchanged in its pre-standardized form;
C.	Identifying early adopters and innovative thinkers across the
ecosystem for whom the costs and risks are a burden, and

PROPY WHITE PAPER

19

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

to whom or by whom innovative uses of standardized data
would be of benefit;
D.	Mapping the transactional flow of data, in a typical use case,
in order to see how the data is already defined as standardized
by specific processes as “trusted in use”;
E.	Extracting the trustworthy data definitions, and creating a
concordance (often via APIs) in order to tag trusted data by
the process that created or used it;
F.	Developing the technical specifications for qualifying the
standardized data and metadata;
G.	Proposing the standard data definitions to the stakeholders
who operate, use or rely on the business process; and
H.	Seeking ISO or other international standards setting
organizational approval of the standards so that ISO-compliant
software, hardware and services can expand the supply,
demand and utility of standardized interoperable data.
2.4 TRANSACTION PLATFORM V.1. PROTOTYPE WORKFLOW
Below is a description of the main flow of activities expected to occur
in the Propy platform as currently envisioned for a real estate purchase
in California:
1.	Buyer finds a property for sale in the Propy DApp.
2.	Buyer provides a flat reservation fee (approximately $5,000) to
ensure that he or she has a legitimate interest in purchasing a
property. Broker sends the notification to seller about the offer
submitted by buyer and invites the seller to get registered in Propy
to close the deal. Seller accepts the deposit, and thus the offer.
Buyer and Seller both provide KYC/AML documentation. The KYC
process is outsourced to a third party provider such as Civic.
3.	Purchase and Sale agreement is generated by Propy and sent to
the parties.
a.	The Title Contract establishes the parameters of the
transaction in order to comply with applicable regional
regulations.
4.	Propy performs ownership verification at Propy Registry via Escrow/
Title agent participation at Propy’s system.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

20

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

5.	Buyer receives notification that ownership has been verified and
signs the agreement electronically.
6.	If the price proposed by the buyer is accepted by the seller, she will
proceed to electronically execute the agreement.
7.	If the buyer in connection with the property purchase opted to
perform a property inspection (and appraisal), then within seven
days, Propy would provide, at an additional cost, an inspection
report prepared by a third-party service provider.
8.	Money is transferred to an escrow account, set by an Escrow/Title
Agent at the dashboard in Propy DApp, either in one transfer or X%
deposit and Y% in installments. Fiat currency will be used.
9.	Propy generates the payment form for Buyer and tracks the
payment with its payment processor partner(s).
10.	Propy marks payment as received on Payment Smart Contract
Status once the wire transfer arrives as per notification by the
payment processor partner(s).
11.	Propy verifies again the ownership at the Propy Registry ledger
and via third parties such as title company and records the asset
transfer on the Propy Registry in “Pending” mode, notifies the
Recording Office and sends the blockchain hash to the recording
office and to all the other parties involved.
12.	Prepare property for the transaction.
a.	Propy notifies Seller and Buyer that the funds have been
received and ownership is clean and “Pending.”
13.	Sign electronic Transfer of Title Deed with Escrow/Title Agent.
a.	Propy generates Title form for Buyer and Seller to sign.
b.	Seller accepts and signs a Title Transfer contract at the Escrow/
Title Agent’s Office (or E-notary in the future).
c.	 Buyer accepts and signs the Title Transfer contract/
d.	E-notary verification takes place or Title Agent signs the deed.
Transferring property ownership.
14.	Escrow Agent submits the sale closing documents to recording
office.
a.	Recording office changes ownership records.
b.	Propy issues own electronic title deed with blockchain hash
and QR code to the buyer (All the documents collected
during the transaction besides the title deed are enforceable.
We believe this will be a catalyst for the Propy title deed to
become enforceable as well).

PROPY WHITE PAPER

21

2. PROPY PLATFORM V.1

c.	 Recording Office issues the physical Title Deed via mail to the
Buyer.
d.	Escrow Agent distributes money to Seller, Brokers and itself
and via the dashboard at Propy notifies about the completion
of this step.
15.	Deed Smart contract after the notification from step 11 marks
the transaction as “Completed” on the Propy Registry (shows
transaction ID here).
Post conditions: Property’s ownership is changed from Seller to Buyer in
Propy Registry.

RECORDING
OFFICE

PROPY

BLOCKCHAIN

Payment, documents
signing, ect
Transaction
started
Create e-deed
Transaction for title XXX has started

Update title status
to locked

E-deed
is created

Documents
processing
Documents processing completed

Deed is executed, title is finalized

Deed
is approved

FIGURE 7. Propy title issuance and recording within the existing ecosystem.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

22

3. PROPY PLATFORM V.2 FOR
DECENTRALIZED P2P SALES
3.1 OVERVIEW
The following description of technology and processes represents Propy’s
goals for the future and is subject to change based on regulatory and
market requirements.
As mentioned previously, the ultimate vision of Propy is not merely to
operate within the existing real estate legal infrastructure, but to disrupt
the legacy system by providing a far superior solution. The Propy team has
developed an idea for advanced real estate transaction services, provided
that the legal environment catches up with this disruptive new blockchain
technology. The Propy Registry, Property Store and other services will
achieve its full promise if and when land registries are modernized to
support this technology and recognize the Propy Registry as effectuating
a binding and legally enforceable change in title. Among the things that
need to happen to make this possible are:
1.	Digital signature in public blockchain need to be recognized as
legally binding.
2.	An identity system needs to be adopted, it would associate
individuals with a specific blockchain address (eID cards with
biometry is one of the options).
3.	Each government agency, participating in real estate transaction,
should have a smart contract-based API (especially crucial for
entities in charge of property taxes estimation and collection).
4.	All records from real estate land registries should migrate to the
blockchain.
3.2 SMART CONTRACTS PARTICIPANTS
Below is a list of the participants that need to be involved in the smart
contracts:
1.	Seller
2.	Buyer
3.	Notary or E-Notary or Government Validator
4.	Broker (optional)
5.	Real Estate Inspector (optional)

PROPY WHITE PAPER

23

3. PROPY PLATFORM V.2 FOR DECENTRALIZED P2P SALES

3.3 WORKFLOW
The workflow below gives a high level overview of how a P2P real estate
transaction would work:
1.	Seller lists a property in the Propy DApp.
2.	Buyer finds a property in Propy DApp that matches his criteria.
3.	Buyer submits an offer via smart contract to the registry subject
to minimum legally compliant conditions (including specifying
whether to include an inspection report).
4.	Seller accepts an offer by signing it with their digital signature.
5.	Intermediaries perform their actions (inspection and other
requirements of the smart contract, provided by the buyer).
6.	Once the conditions mentioned above are met a smart contract
triggers the payment system for Buyer to pay in cryptocurrency
(any currency can be supported).
7.	Smart contract accepts the payment and transfer the ownership to
the new owner on the Propy Registry once all terms and conditions
are met.
As mentioned in (3), we are making the system modular and letting Buyers
provide a number of conditions and inspection requirements. In such a
circumstance, the third party involved in satisfying the conditions signs
the smart contract with a digital signature.
System notifies intermediaries
Intermediaries carry out their respective actions, and notify
the system that their actions are complete
4

3
1

Buyer submits offer
for property

Seller accepts offer

2

6
Intermediaries

Buyer
5

Propy Registry on
Blockchain

Seller

Property changes
ownership in propy registry
Cryptocurrency is moved from Buyer to Seller

Figure 7. P2P Transactions in the Propy DApp

PROPY WHITE PAPER

24

4. BUSINESS MODEL
Propy has a very simple and scalable business model. When a property is
purchased on the Propy network, Propy takes a small percentage of the
final purchase price. Propy charges real estate brokers per transaction for
using Propy’s technology and tools. Payment will initially be made in fiat
currencies, and cryptocurrencies are plan to be added over time in the
jurisdictions where it is possible to do so. With a $340bn market size of all
cross-border real estate acquisitions and dispositions trading annually10,
the addressable market for Propy is significant.
The percentage that Propy takes from the final purchase price can be
smaller than the one currently charged by the existing intermediaries
in the real estate disposition process. Future expansions of the Propy.
com platform plan to eliminate multiple intermediaries, which would
progressively decrease transaction cost over time.

10

“Cross-border capital flows to thrive as world grows older”, JLL, 2016.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

25

5. PROPY TOKEN (PRO)
5.1 INTRODUCTION
The PRO tokens are designed to be used to unlock a smart contract for
title transfer in the Propy Registry. PRO tokens are built on the ERC-20
token standard, which allows for simple integration into users‘ wallets.
The essential and obligatory steps for a real estate acquisition on Propy
Registry includes the execution of the Deed Contract and Title Contract,
which are necessary for the transfer of property title and the recording
of the change of ownership. The Propy Registry, will require the use of
PROs to pay the associated “Registry Fees” to record these modification
on blockchain.
Using PROs in the Propy platform is intended to be simple and user
friendly. Users would initiate the writing of new data to the Propy registry
via Propy’s interface, whether that data would result in the creation of
new title, or transferring a title already recorded in the system.
As such, the use of PROs will be necessary to access the services provided
in the Propy platform, as it would act as:
•	 A uniform method of settlement for interacting with Propy Registry,
which reduces time delays and independence from any particular
fiat currency.
•	 A decentralized registry requires some barrier to entry to initiate
transactions, otherwise the Propy network would be overloaded
with unnecessary records. The usage of PROs is crucial for the
network in order to prevent spam. If requests to write new
information to the network were free, attackers could repeatedly
send faulty requests; this ‘blockchain bloat’ would prevent genuine
requests from reaching validators in the network.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

26

5. PROPY TOKEN (PRO)

5.2 REGISTRY FEES
As defined in section 2.2.1, the following contracts will require fee
payment:
•	 Title contract — for all operations, that require creation and
updates of title records.
•	 Deed contract — for all operations, associated with creation and
updates of deeds.
The company will develop a method to insure that the Registry fees remain
within a reasonable range relative to comparable services priced in fiat.
5.3 TOKEN FLOW OVERVIEW
The specific flow of PROs would be slightly different for users who already
own PROs than for those who do not at the time of the property purchase.
The users who do not own PROs have to buy them in the third party
marketplaces in order to transact.
Below is a description of the basic flow of PROs:
1.	Once a Buyer has selected a property to buy, it will initiate the
transaction via the Propy website/application.
2.	As Buyer goes through the KYC process, an identity record will be
created in Identity contract.
3.	Buyer would then make a Reservation fee payment in fiat and pay
the Registry Fees in PROs (see section 5.2).
4.	Records in the Deed and Title Contracts are intended to be unlocked
and executed as the purchase process occurs.
5.	The collected PROs are intended to be distributed as per section 5.5.
5.4 ECONOMIC MODEL
The PROs have a fixed supply of 100 million. The entire supply of tokens
will be issued at the beginning of the token sale. New tokens cannot be
created and the existing ones cannot be destroyed. Therefore, as demand
rises, there is no corollary increase in supply.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

27

5. PROPY TOKEN (PRO)

The PRO will be necessary to utilize the Propy Registry regardless of
whether it is accessed through the utilization of Propy services or a third
party interface.
5.5 PROPY REGISTRY FEE USAGE
The PROs paid for the Registry Fees would be distributed as follows: 1/3 would
be distributed to the company and 2/3 would be added to the Network Growth
Pool (as defined in section 5.6).
5.6 NETWORK GROWTH
Initially, 35% of the total supply of PROs would
be reserved for network growth. Additionally,
the network growth pool will receive ⅔ of
PROs collected from all the transactions as
described in section 5.5. The network growth
pool of PROs would be used to incentivize the
engagement of users in the platform.
Propy users would receive rewards in PROs
when undertaking certain actions on the
platform. For example, when a broker, home
buyer, or home seller joins the platform, they
would receive a reward in PROs for doing so.
This reward system intends to encourage the
adoption of the Propy platform worldwide. As
more users join the platform, there could be
an associated increase in the number of real
estate transactions performed on the platform.
Propy also intends to make distributions of
PROs from the network growth development
pool to governments and other large
institutional actors to incentivize the utilization
of the platform. Propy expects that this would
accelerate the realization of Propy’s vision —

PROPY WHITE PAPER

28

5. PROPY TOKEN (PRO)

the acceptance of the Propy Registry as a universal, decentralized legal
ledger for real estate ownership.
5.7 DONATIONS
Propy is aware that blockchain technology is not yet mature enough to
handle the load implied by millions of users, or billions of transactions.
While current network performance and infrastructure is predicted to be
sufficient for the future expansion and utilization of the Propy Registry,
Propy recognizes the importance of continued protocol-level development
to help achieve the ubiquitous usage of blockchain technology and to
support the load implied by millions of users and billions of transactions.
In pursuit of our vision, we are reserving 15% of the total supply of PROs
for donations to different organizations within the blockchain ecosystem
to support the improvement of blockchain infrastructure so that it can
also meet the transactional requirements of Propy and the Propy Registry
at scale. As part of this effort, Propy plans to donate to the foundations
such as Ethereum Foundation to support their research and development
towards scalability. Additionally, Propy plans to make donations to
support educational efforts in blockchain. Propy also intends to support
hackathons, Solidity educational programs, and blockchain courses.
The Donation Tokens will be distributed to foundations selected by the
company within three months after the crowdsale end date, on the
condition that the Donation Tokens will be locked for twelve months after
the crowdsale end date. After they are unlocked, the Donation Tokens can
be used by the foundations as follows:
A.	Support of development of blockchain and widespread integration.
B.	Support of research towards blockchain scalability and identity.
C.	Support of education efforts in blockchain technology.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

29

5. PROPY TOKEN (PRO)

5.8 COMPANY
15%, or 15 million of the total supply of PROs is intended to be reserved
for the company unders following conditions:
•	 2 million Development Tokens will be immediately available for
use by the company;
•	 5 million Development Tokens will be locked for 12 months from
the Crowdsale End Date;
•	 5 million Development Tokens will be locked for 24 months from
the Crowdsale End Date;
•	 3 million Development Tokens will be locked for 36 months after
the Crowdsale End Date.
Once unlocked, the company reserves the right to use the Development
Tokens for any purposes at its sole discretion. If Company elects to sell any
of the Development Tokens, the Company will sell such Tokens for a price
no less than the Price Per Token, and the company may elect to provide
Bonus Tokens to the purchasers of such Tokens, but the bonus rate will not
exceed 10%.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

30

6. CONCLUSION
Propy’s vision is to ultimately enable a global real estate market with a
unified real-time purchase interface and a decentralized title registry.
It is being designed to allow real estate assets to become more liquid
while providing users with greater control over the transaction process.
To achieve that goal, Propy intends to further the development of a
new ecosystem of token holders, brokers, governments and end users
incentivized to support the transition to a seamless, secure, and globally
recognized real estate transaction network.
Propy expects that if it succeeds in carrying out its vision the following
will occur:
•	 It is anticipated that brokers and real estate corporations will
progressively start using the Propy platform to access foreign
buyers in an easier way and to be able close transactions nearly
instantly and securely online.
•	 Governmental entities, notaries and title companies need a system
to transfer data among each other and combat fraud and, in some
cases, corruption in global real estate markets. Propy proposes
that governments could use the Propy platform to improve the
transparency of local real estate markets and therefore improved
attractiveness for foreign investors.
•	 Finally, most importantly, the consumers — buyers and sellers —
will be able to buy and sell real estate assets faster, cheaper, and
more securely.

PROPY WHITE PAPER

31

