1

Token sale
Whitepaper
| Whitepaper
V3.04
| www.SilentNotary.com
| 09/30/2017

SilentNotary is a blockchain-based service for
confirmation of event existence, recorded in digital
format. Communication in messenger, image,
video file, and e-mail can be an event. SilentNotary
converts an event into a legally significant evidence,
excluding the possibility of falsification.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

2

Content
Introduction

Our Product
Use Cases
User Interfaces

Development of the System
The Roadmap

Token Sale
The Future
Conclusion

3

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Introduction
Just a few years ago, a solution was found to build a Trust Machine – blockchain
was a fact. The first thing that people began to write down in the blockchain were
records about financial transaction, which everyone would trust, and so Bitcoin
was born.
We live in a world full of distrust. And in case of misfortune, we must prove that
certain facts were in intact.
We use blockchain technology for its intended purpose, trust.
Data about the events that occurred are recorded. There is no more a need to
prove anything, blockchain solves the problem of distrust.
Suddenly we have a way to make the world better and our lives safer, with a
global system of confirmation of event’s existence!
Blockchain is a sophisticated technology. Bridges are needed between the user
and the technology. These bridges are user interfaces, allowing users to transfer
data to the system about events recorded in any form - photos, videos, chats,
audio recordings or documents.
Now, we have developed all the main interfaces possible for you.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

4

Our Product
SilentNotary is an ecosystem, which develops around Smart
Contracts, ensuring the evidence of existence and permanence
of certain events.

To achieve the goal of a global solution,
various user interfaces have been
developed, which are as follows:

To promote the product in the global
market, it was necessary to adapt it for
different categories of customers:

1. 	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	
	

1. 	
	
	
	

B2C (Business to Consumer): The
simplest interface, understandable to
the common user and can be
integrated with social networks.

2. 	
	
	
	
	
	

B2B (Business to business): License
scheme, corporate accounts
(available in beta version), access
delimitation, and API for integration
with corporate document
management systems available.

Chatbots for Facebook messenger
and Telegram bots are developed
to record information and available in
production and beta-versions.
Chatbots are installed on almost
all smartphones. They are convenient
and common for users. They allow
us to record video, send files, and
communicate with many users in real
time. Obviously, a chatbot with
protocol writing and record of
evidence to prove the existence of
information, obtained during a dialog,
supports the solution of event
proving problem.

2. 	 Web interface (developed and
	
available in beta-version).
3. 	 Mobile applications for Android and
	
iOS Apps are being developed and
	
will be available soon.
4. 	
	
	
	
	

5

Mail-bot has been developed and is
available in production-version. It
is used to certify e-mails and records
written communication with any
number of counter agents.

SilentNotary worldwide market capacity:
B2C: 2,3 billion users.

B2B Sectors:
Insurance companies

11,388
Online media

1,371
Banking insurance

7,987
Construction

43,347

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Use Cases
During what cases do we need SilentNotary and what can it do
to help? Let’s study several examples of legal relations, which
may require delivery of evidence:

1. Performed work, rendered services
It will be easy to record the results at each stage of the process. Just launch the messenger
and send images or video files of the results to the SilentNotary chatbot. You can share the
received link with the employer. By doing so, you will be able to prove the fact that, at that
moment, the work was completed. If the work was not finished within the agreed timescale
or there were deficiencies detected, the employer can do the same and record the problem
in the format of certified images or video. Certified records may be used for preparation of
acceptance, certificates for work performed, or objections to quality and timescale claims.
2. Communication via e-mail
Letters of critical importance can be saved and certified by just adding the SilentNotary
address into the list of recipients. The system certifies the letter content and data from the
mailing servers (RFC-title of the letter). It means that the list of recipients, the fact of dispatch,
delivery, and email routing will be recorded.
3. Offers are made in a digital format
Any company, selling anything via the Internet, makes a public offer to its clients. In this
case, the text of the offer is just published on the website. This text may be changed at any
time. There are many cases that require confirmation of the offer content and the fact of
its publication on the website. Both the seller and the buyer may need it. You can use the
SilentNotary website to certify the documents and the pages, where it was published. Just
send a link to the page, and order a certification of the page content.
4. Website content copyrights
Almost every website shows the users a © symbol. As a matter of fact, placement of the
copyright protection symbol is a meaningless ritual. It is very hard to prove that some
content was present on the website at some time in the past. Just certify the website’s
content using SilentNotary if you must need to protect your rights and fight against
plagiarism. Just send a link to SilentNotary, and order a certification of the website’s pages
and content. That will be enough. Afterwards, you can publish a link of the certified content,
next to the notice of copyright protection.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

6

5. Priority of authorship
Code text, picture, story, music... Any intellectual property item, which can be represented
in digital format, is subject to legal protection. SilentNotary cannot replace a patent solicitor,
but it helps to prove precedence in the case of dispute. To certify the item, just send a file
via email to the SilentNotary address, certify it by yourself on the website, or share it in a
message to the chatbot.
6. Agreements
You can record any negotiation and decision taken. Just conduct negotiations through the
multi-chat feature in our chatbot. The chatbot will prepare and certify the conversation
protocol on your command.
7. License agreement
How many times has each of us agreed to the terms of use of some software program? That
said, the text of the agreement is only a text on the website page, which can be replaced
at any moment. If a user violates the terms of the agreement, it is hardly possible to prove
which text was published at the moment the user agreed to it. Send a link of the page with
the agreement to SilentNotary. We will record the fact of publication at a specified address,
date of publication, and content of all the published documents.
8. Whitepaper and other types of public statements
Oftentimes, to refer to someone’s statement, we should prove that this exact text that
existed in the past, during a certain action was performed. For example, to participate in an
ICO, you should record the whitepaper content and the fact of its publication at the moment
of the transaction. Just send a link of the published document to the SilentNotary website,
and certify the fact of publication, date of publication, and document content.
9. User guides
Financial success of a product manufacturer depends on the accuracy of the user guide and
the fact of its publication on the website. You can certify the page with the publication via the
SilentNotary website by just sending a hyperlink to the page.
10. Evidence gathering from an accident site
In case of an incident (for example, a car crash), an acute need for records of the incident’s
circumstances often arises. Just launch the SilentNotary chatbot and send images and video
files of the relevant circumstances.
11. Verbal agreements
It is very hard to prove a verbal agreement in court. Do not risk it. During conclusion of the
agreement, launch the SilentNotary chatbot and record your conversation. The audio file will
be recorded and certified for you.
Usage of SilentNotary service is not limited to the mentioned examples. There may be
a need for evidence in all situations, resulting in rights and duties. We believe that the
users will find a lot of new ways to use our service.
Important! Warning! Usage of SilentNotary service should not contradict local norms, rules and laws. In
case of wrongful use of the service, responsibility for its usage lies with the user.

7

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

User Interfaces
As stated in the previous section, the user interacts with the
service using the following interfaces: chatbots, web, mobile
apps, and email. The working schemes of these interfaces are
presented in this section.

Chatbots
The capabilities of the chatbot are determined by the functionality that the messenger
provides. In addition, during the development of the messenger, these opportunities may
change. Our development plan involves working with all popular instant messengers. For
implementation in the demo version, the Telegram and Facebook messenger have been
selected. At the launch time of the chatbot, the Facebook messenger did not support group
chat. To solve this problem, we implemented a synthetic multitask, allowing the participation
of an unlimited number of users and an unlimited number of simultaneously running multichats. Each of the users communicates only with the chatbot, the chatbot collects two-way
communication in the common multi-chat. The user can now switch between simultaneous
conversations.
Chatbot
Conv 1..k

Prot 1..k
Smart
Contracts

Conv k+1..l

Prot K+1..I

Conv l+1..N

Prot I+1..N

Certified
Protocols 1..N

The service allows the conversation’s participants to assure the protocol in the blockchain
and store it in the SilentNotary Vault. Archives will be available to users in their own personal
account.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

8

Web
The scheme of working with SilentNotary through the web is the following: The registered
user drags (drag & drop feature) the file to the appropriate area on the SilentNotary website
or places the link of the file to the webpage that he wants to certify.

www.silentnotary.com
Smart
Contracts

When you save a file or page of a site, an archive is created with the content of the file or
page, the hash value is calculated, user confirmation is requested, the service is paid, the
hash of this archive is deployed into the Ethereum blockchain, and the archive is saved in
the vault. The archive with the hash and the block number is available for downloading in the
user’s own personal account.

9

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Mobile applications. Lightstamp technology
During the development of the SilentNotary, it became necessary to determine the time
range of a certified event. Using the hardware capabilities of the smartphones, a solution was
found and the Lightstamp (tm) technology was developed to determine the time interval of
the event recorded with the smartphone’s video camera and flashlight.
The Lightstamp technology allows the following:
1. 	 Counteracts forgery and any modification of the recorded video facts;
2. 	 Records the time interval of the event (the time of beginning and end of the video); and
3. 	 Provides evidence of a real video-shooting event.
More information about LightStamp Technology will be provided soon as we are registering a
patent.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

10

Email
The scheme of working with SilentNotary via e-mail is the following: The user sends an email
directly to our mailbot address (go@silentnotary.com) or adds the mailbot address in cc
(carbon copy). SilentNotary creates an archive with the email’s details, RFC-title, content, and
attached documents. The hash of the archive is calculated, and then the user is required to
confirm the saving by replying to a message.

To: a@gmail.com

CC: go@silentnotary.com

Smart
Contracts

After the document is saved and payment
for the service is confirmed by the user,
DApp SilentNotary records data hash in
the next block of blockchain Ethereum.

The user then receives a link for the hash transaction. The archive is stored in the repository.
(In the demo version, Google cloud storage is used, and in the main version, the possibility of
using decentralized systems will be considered.) After the operation is completed, the user
will be able to access the saved history in his/her personal account.

11

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Technical description of the product
The scheme of operation of the service is quite simple. In accordance with various
interactions with the user, an archive is formed, including the date of the event, details of the
document, and the document itself (it can be a file and a protocol of correspondence, among
others).
Web

Chatbot

}

Smart
Contracts

Block
ID

Block
TxHash;0x156..

Hash sd89qn..

Input Data:
Hash sd89qn..

Email

{

Cloud
Storage
Hash sd89qn..
Tx-Hash 0x158..

Next, the hash of this archive is calculated by the algorithm SHA-256, with the help of a
Smart Contract written into the Ethereum blockchain. The archive itself is saved in the cloud
storage. The user receives a hash, which is the result of computing the hash function on the
user’s archive. The TxHash of the transaction in the Ethereum blockchain and a link to the
document in his/her personal account are then made available.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

12

Given the known technical features of the Ethereum
platform, we are planning to launch a duplicating
system based on the Universa platform. This
platform should provide high speed and low
transaction costs, which is critical for a service with
micro-transactions.

13

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Development of the System
The main directions of development
The main problems for the development of the system are the indefinite legal status of the
record in the public stable blockchain and low awareness of potential customers about
the new product. Accordingly, the following strands of work are planned for the successful
development of the system:
1. 	 To develop legal opinions, perform technical and legal expertise, create instructions
	
and ways of using the system, and legal support in case-based litigations with leading
	
legal companies;
2. 	
	

To promote use of the blockchain notary in everyday life, develop recommendations,
and collect and generalize judicial practices;

3. 	
	

To create an ecosystem around the main application. This ecosystem would consist of
service provider organizations, end users, and decentralized applications;

4. 	 We have planned to include public notaries in the ecosystem to organize a remote
	
notarization of the existence of online and electronic documents to cover the
	
maximum range of needs for notary services. For this purpose, it is planned to create
	
a distributed ledger of notaries and organize interaction within the ecosystem. World
	
distributed ledger of public notaries will allow the users to remotely verify the existence
	
of electronic documents in a classical way, but with a more convenient user interface;
	And
5. 	

To advertise and promote services that use the SilentNotary Smart Contract.

These activities are financed by the sale of the system tokens.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

14

SNTR tokens
The system tokens (hereinafter referred as SNTR or tokens) are issued in a limited number of
1*1012 tokens and are used to organize the interaction among the ecosystem participants.
The main contract for its operation is required by SNTR. Only the SNTR token holder can use
the services of the contract.

The number of SNTR tokens needed to execute the contract are as follows:
Main contract
requirement in SNTR

Rate ETH/USD

Price of witness,
$ USD

Since the service is aimed at rendering its facilities in the real economy, the cost of services
shall be denominated in fiat currencies. However, calculations within crypto-economics are
made in crypto currencies. Compared to crypto currencies, the cost of fiat currencies is
marked by high volatility. The following solution is proposed to resolve the issue of regulating
the cost of services and linking it to the fiat currency: Control the SilentNotary contract
execution costs by changing the basic cost for document certification (serves for recording
the market conditions and competitive environment). Coefficients USD/ETH rate and
certification costs are published on the webpage SilentNotary.com.
For example, as per the calculation formula, if a basic cost of certification equals to 0.5 USD
and USD/ETH exchange rate is 300, the requirement of the contract will be 1 667 SNTR.
For the service of the ordinary user, it is planned to support the creation of independent
service providers and commercial organizations that are acting as intermediaries between
the end customer and the SilentNotary service. To render services, the providers must buy
the SNTR tokens.
These tokens can be obtained in the following two ways:
1. 	 During the token sale, by exchanging ETH for tokens in accordance with the
	
rules of the sale.
2. 	 Exchange from the existing owners in a transaction.

15

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Let’s consider a case were the Smart Contract of SilentNotary is used by a service provider.
License
agreement

Blockchain

Terms &
Conditions

general
Smart contract
Service
provider

Client

Crypto
exchange

The service provider, a company rendering commercial services to end users, submits an
offer (Terms & Conditions) to the user, according to which the user sends certified content to
the provider and pays for the service in-line with the rate (USD).
To provide services to its customers, the service provider uses the main Smart Contract of
SilentNotary under the terms of the license agreement. The use of this contract as a software
product is made for the benefit of the SilentNotary token holders.
To execute the main contract, the service provider needs to transfer a certain number
of SNTR tokens to SilentNotary. As a result of this main contract, the Service Provider will
receive a link to
TxHash and sends it to the user, while the information itself is stored in the Vault and made
available to the user in his/her personal account.

Important!
The aforementioned calculation, its results, and assumptions do not constitute an obligation for a
team to provide potential holders of tokens with some profit. The calculation just
demonstrates the possibility of returning ETH during redemption of tokens in the event that tokens are
not spent by the holder for using the service. Therefore, we do not recommend you to treat the token
as an investment.

The token Smart Contract is used to control the circulation of the tokens. A SNTR
is issued in line with ERC20 standards, which makes it possible to use all the existing
infrastructure and maintain the circulation of the tokens.
After the number of tokens that is necessary for the application are transferred, the tokens
received by the Smart Contract are deposited and, thus, withdrawn from circulation. In the
future, the developers consider a possibility of putting the deposited tokens in circulation,
purely for the purposes of the application’s development or its market promotion.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

16

The Roadmap
This section describes the sequence of steps which we intend
to execute to create an ecosystem based on the main Smart
Contract SilentNotary.

ICO Silent Notary
Stage One (Creating an SPV)
2-3 Months
The first step is to create the legal framework of the ecosystem. To do so, it is
necessary to build a core institution – a non-profit organization. The following are
the main objectives of this organization: to put the service into legal practice in the
main jurisdictions (conducting technical and due diligence reviews, obtaining legal
opinions, establishing the precedence of use, and carrying out legal researches), to
support the organizations that use the SilentNotary service in their work (consultations,
legal support, technical consulting, and grants), and to make the service popular
(advertising).

Stage Two (Service development: Services on UNIVERSA platform, App
on RDE thnology & Services on B2B)
6-8 Months
The second step is to develop the main code of the Smart Contract SilentNotary
(the prototype has been created and is ready for testing). It is necessary to add the
evolution mechanism and carry out a technical audit.

Stage Three (Testing and commissioning)
9-12 Months
The third step supposes the launch of the commercial projects (companies which are
providers of the services) and the activation of the marketing campaign.

17

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Creation of the SilentNotary foundation
An important stage in the SilentNotary service implementation is the creation of a non-profit
organization, SilentNotary Foundation, which will aim at the development of the SilentNotary
ecosystem (legal status of certification in the blockchain, expertise and introduction in legal
practice). List of tasks of the first stage are as follows:
-	
	
-	
-	
-	
	
	

Registration acts connected with the SilentNotary Foundation – including the choice of
jurisdiction, the choice of the legal entity form, and the choice of the taxation scheme-;
Development of a standard offer for the service users;
Development of the license agreements; and
Legal elaboration of the service model to ensure its correct operation in
various jurisdictions.

This stage will take 2–3 months. The funds for this stage are written off a special purse with
multi-signatures.

Service development
The second work stage is more focused on the technical challenges, including the expansion
of the available service interfaces:
-	
	
-	
	
-	
	
-	
	
-	
-	
-	
-	
	
-	

Development of the code for the main Smart Contract of the system and activation of
the evolution mechanism;
Development of chatbots for the main messengers, which ensure the functionality
required for the service work;
Further development of the website functionality – dealing not only with separate files,
but also with hyperlinks, saving the structure of the website and its contents;
Development of schemes for accepting payments from service users and the
introduction of a flexible pricing system for services;
Further development of the mail service, for example, file hashing by links;
Development of the API interface;
Improvement of the interface usability;
Development of the code for the main Smart Contract of the system on
the UNIVERSA platform; and
Development of Lightstamp technology.

This stage will take 4–6 months. The funds for this stage and the next one are written off a
purse at the command of the Smart Contract, which is activated by two team members and
one of the two Escrow agents involved in the project.

Launching
The third work stage includes creation (attraction) of the service providers, final testing of
the service, development of the marketing program, recruitment of the companies working
on the service promotion, and conclusion of the contracts with the key performers of the
program.
This stage will take 2–3 months. It ends with the commercial launch of the service.
Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

18

Token Sale

Important!
This section is devoted to the issuing and exchange of the SNTR tokens. If the laws of the country you
reside in involve certain requirements that for you, as a potential token holder, or for the process of
tokens acquisition and exchange, we recommend you consult the lawyers with the relevant practice
in your jurisdiction and make a decision about the tokens exchange based on their recommendation.
Besides, we would like to bring to your notice that due to technical organization of token issuing and
exchange, we do not collect, store, or make use of the potential token holders’ personal data, and,
thus, we cannot control what jurisdiction they belong to and whether the laws of this jurisdiction are
violated. As a result of such circumstances, the responsibility for exchanging tokens in your jurisdiction
rests with you, as the token holder.

19

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

Main characteristics of the Token Sale

10

12

SNTR

Total amount of tokens

10

6.5*

11

Total amount of tokens to sale

Token sale details are as follows:
-	
-	
	
-	
	
-	

The sales period will be divided in 3 phases;
Each phase can last up to 14 days. The sale can be completed ahead of schedule if
the exchange rate reaches its maximum or if all the tokens are sold;
The start date of each phase will be announced in-time by the developers and will be
published on the website and broadcasted in our social media channels; and
Each phase can be extended by the developers, but it will not surpass 14 days.

Additional provisions are as follows:
-	
-	
-	
	

The hardcap is set for 100,000 ETH;.
A hidden cap will be triggered once the hardcap is reached;
All unsold tokens will be transferred to the team’s multi-signature-wallet to
provide future development and team bonus.

Sale procedures
In order to purchase tokens during the token sale, you will need to send the required
amount of ETH to the address which will be indicated on the official website www.
silentnotary.com. The address will be published not earlier than 24 hours before the start of
the sale. In response to your investment, STNR tokens will be deposited to your wallet.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

20

The use of funds raised
The use of wallets with multi-signatures and Escrow.
Raising funds are transferred to a wallet with a multi-signature 3/3. One of the signatures
is Escrow and the two others that are team leaders. Use of funds is done approximately
as follows: 50% will be used for marketing and promotion of innovative products. 20% for
the legal status, experts in different legislations, and introduction in legal practice. 20% for
Research & Development. 10% will be used for staff and operational costs.

Allocation of the Funds
The wallet of token holders
SNTR

ETH

Crowdsale Contract

50%

Marketing and promotion

20%

Research & development

20%

Legal matters

10%

Staff & operational costs

ETH

Multi-sign wallet (3/3)
team’s
signature

Escrow’s
signature

Checklist

Escrow checklist
Escrow is contracted to control the fulfillment of the following liabilities:
1. 	 The return of the raised funds is performed in the case when the minimum required
	 amount is not reached during the token sale. The only permitted way to spend funds
	 from the Development and Marketing Account for Escrow is to return the ETH to
	 token buyers; and
2. 	 The establishment of the non-commercial company (SilentNotary Foundation), whose
	 statutory activity is to introduce legal practice of the technology for providing proof by
	 making entries in the blockchain through SilentNotary Smart Contract, provide
	 the necessary technical and legal expertise, obtain legal opinions, set use cases, conduct
	 legal studies, and provide the following support for organizations that use the
	 SilentNotary service: consultations, legal support, technical support, subsidies and
	 promotion of the service.

21

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

The Future of SilentNotary

We believe that a whole system of services will emerge that will use SilentNotary,
in particular, P2B, B2B, P2P credit systems, real estate management, insurance,
evaluation of physical assets, and more.
In fact, we are currently working on such a project – a system for the transfer of
financial and legal documentation called the DebtBlock Project. These services will
use documents certified by SilentNotary as their basis.
We are willing to collaborate with other teams and projects. If your project needs
solid proofs that certain events or documents took place, we will develop a
convenient interaction interface.
Become part of the revolution and join us in our journey.

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

22

Conclusion

The legal system is the basis of our society. We have come a long way and evolved
from primitive tribes, where the rule of force prevailed, to the modern complex
system of norms, which guarantees the rights to all individuals. The legal systems
continue to evolve, but it cannot keep up with the technological progress. It is quite
inert, which is natural, since any change in the legal system will cause significant
consequences on the entire society.
Obviously, the recently developed technology of data storage in a public
blockchain is ideal to record facts. And the fact that almost every person today
has a smartphone and uses messengers will make this technology accessible
to everyone. The legal system is already beginning to accept blockchain as a
method of trusted data storage, and once its reluctance is finally over, we will
witness a revolution in numerous areas of our life. This will expand our possibilities
significantly.
Business practices will change. Contracts will be signed in messenger apps.
Business procedures will become faster. By recording all the facts, corruption and
fraud will be prevented. We would create a more stable and safe world. We have
developed and keep on developing SilentNotary with zealous enthusiasm.
Yours sincerely,
The SilentNotary team
Reach out to us at hello@silentnotary.com for any inquiries and ideas you may
have.
23

Token sale | Whitepaper | www.SilentNotary.com

