White paper

SKINCOIN (SKIN) - Universal Cryptocurrency based on Ethereum for instant
trading CS:GO, Dota 2 skins, and taking bets on e-sports events.

Alexey Zakharov, Igor Solomatin

Version 1.0 (final)

SKINCOIN.org
June 2017
1

Contents

1.

INTRODUCTION.

3

1.1 What are the skins?

4

1.2 How the skins market emerged

4

1.3 The size of the skins market and its trends

5

2.

9

THE SKINS MARKET PROBLEMS AND THEIR SOLUTIONS

2.1 What problems are there in the skins market?

9

2.2 How we suggest to solve these problems

10

2.3. Competitive advantages

10

3.

ICO

13

3.1. ICO Goals

13

3.2. ICO parameters

13

3.3. ICO allocation structure and Marketing:

14

4.

WHY CONTRIBUTE TO SKINCOIN

15

4.1. Roadmap and Development plan

15

5.

SOME TECHNICAL ASPECTS OF THE EXCHANGE SERVICE WITH API

16

6.

TEAM

17

2

1.

Introduction

In the last few years eSports have become extremely popular with the media. The number of
players and fans, prize funds and budgets of competitions have demonstrated a significant
growth. We invite you to take part in this growth with us.
The story begins in 2011, when Valve introduced an opportunity to exchange and trade in-game
items (skins) from the popular CS:GO, Dota 2, and other video games based on the official Steam
trading platform. Very soon skins were not just in-game items, but in fact became an actual
currency: a lot of online services started to accept them as a payment method, exchange them for
real money and other skins, or use them as bets on betting platforms. Thus, the skins market
emerged, and has grown up to more than $7 billion in a few years.
Our main product under this ICO is creating an exchange service with a convenient API for
connecting to the third party websites, so that they can accept payments in SKINCOIN without
having to open and maintain their own stores.
We are creating a platform for immediate exchange of skins for the cryptocurrency, which is a
liquid asset that can be used for further skins speculative trading, replace the turnover of skins on
video game websites and can be used for conversion of the income after trading skins into fiat
money. For that, we need a working capital that will be used to execute the obligations between
a seller and a buyer of the skin, and also a marketing budget to scale the project.
We are an experienced team working in the skins market for many years, we have created and
maintained such projects as Steamtrade.net, Skinwin.com and Case.club. Our advantage is that
right after the ICO, SKINCOIN (SKIN) will be integrated into our and our partners’ game projects
that include skin trading.
SKINCOIN (SKIN) – tokens are to be released based on the Ethereum blockchain platform.
All proceeds from the release of tokens in the ICO shall be used to finance further development,
support, marketing of new gaming projects: trading platforms and gaming services associated
with items from games like CS:GO, Dota2 and Team Fortress 2.

3

1.1 What are the skins?
Skins are virtual items that can be used in games like Counter-Strike: Global Offensive (CS:GO),
Dota 2, Team Fortress 2. The term “skin” is derived from the typical function of these virtual items:
changing the appearance of a player’s in-game avatar, weapons, or equipment.
For example: below is an image of the “stock” gun used as a weapon in CS:GO. Players can opt to
replace that stock gun with unique skins of the gun that change the appearance of the gun, as
shown in the images.

CS:GO - Gun without skin and with skin

Note that the skins do not improve the functionality or power of the gun. The skin only changes
the appearance of the gun. Skins play a purely cosmetic role.
As the CS:GO market is the primary one and holds 80% of the industry, we will further focus on
this game.

1.2 How the skins market emerged
The skins market began to grow and develop rapidly after Valve introduced an opportunity to
exchange and sell skins to other players. A player could use the skin in the game itself, by
installing it for his character; sell it on a trading platform or pass it on to another player as a
means of exchange or as a gift via Steam’s API. A great number of players wanted to profit from
the skins’ liquidity by selling or exchanging the items as if it was the stock market. Rare and
unique skins acquired a status of collectors’ skins and now their price may exceed the amount of
$10,000.
Today there are several ways of getting a skin in CS:GO:





Receiving them during gameplay;
Receiving them as a promotional giveaway (often around major CS:GO events);
Trading with other players;
Purchasing skins on a variety of marketplaces.

Not only the opportunity to show off a unique skin in the game made the skins popular, but
also the possibility of using them as a payment method on plenty of video game websites.
4

Originally, it was only allowed to sell the skins on the official Steam trading platform, however
the problem was that it was impossible to withdraw money from the platform. The money
received from selling the skins on Steam could only be used to buy other skins or other games
on the same platform. The problem was solved by many emerging services which offered more
convenient and attractive options of using the skins, thus forming a new market outside Steam.
Besides, an impulse for the skins market development and their popularity was given by various
gaming services. Accepting the skins as a payment method, they soon became popular, gained
their huge loyal audience, increased the demand for the skins enormously and brought this
market to a new level.
This is how it works:

Players “deposit” a skin at a skin-gaming site by transferring the skin to the skin gaming
site;

They gamble using their deposited skins (or in some sort of internal currency that the
player receives in exchange for their skin);

If they win, they’re paid in additional skins, which they “cash out” by requesting that the
skin gaming site transfer skins back to the player.

Author: Chris Grove. He is a gambling industry analyst, a partner at Narus Advisors, and senior consultant
at Eilers & Krejcik Gaming1.

1.3 The size of the skins market and its trends
In recent years, eSports games have gained immense popularity and were covered by major
media. The most popular games are CS:GO and Dota 2, they are also the most profitable in the
market. A last major tournament at the National Wide Arena (where the NHL Blue Jackets play) in
1

http://www.esportsbettingreport.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/07/A-Guide-To-Skin-Gambling.pdf

5

April 2016 generated more than 71 million online views in four days. A huge number of games
and tournaments are broadcasted by streaming services such as Twitch and YouTube.
Each day more than 400-450 thousand people play in CS:GO simultaneously, for Dota 2 this figure
is more than 750-800 thousand people.

On picture illustrated statistic on 2017-06-17_15-00

The number of players and people who have bought these games grows every year. At the
beginning of 2014 there were 26 million of them in Dota2 and only 12 million in CS:GO (according
to ARS Technica). Now, according to Steam Spy, more than 104 million users have installed Dota2
and more than 29 million – CS:GO.

6

Statistic from Steam Spy, look column Owners2

As Narus Advisors reports, the size of
the market amounted to about $7.4
billion in 2016. This is the total sum of
bets made in skins by players all over
the world.
According to Eilers&Krejcik, more than
3 million people have made their bets
on the results of eSports games with
skins worth $2.3 billion during 2015.
Despite the fact that this kind of bets
can hardly be considered mainstream
or
be
compared
with
the
cryptocurrency market, the growth of
the skin gambling market is really
fascinating: more than 300% in 2016
compared to 2015.
The market for skin gambling is
distributed across a handful of
dominant products.
Sportsbook-style betting (wagers on
esports matches) is the largest
vertical. The second most popular is
jackpot-style
games,
essentially
lotteries where players receive tickets
based on the value of their deposited
skins. Simple forms of roulette
games, coin flip games, and blackjack
games make up much of the
remaining turnover.
In terms of market participants, the
skin gambling industry grew quickly
from a handful to hundreds of sites in
the course of a year. The vast majority
of those sites were variations on the
basic jackpot product theme.
Ultimately, we believe the bulk of
handle in the skin gaming industry

2

http://steamspy.com/app/730

7

was generated by roughly fifteen sites.
Google trends proves strong demand in the skins market and the growth of interest in this
market.

8

2.

The skins market problems and their solutions

2.1 What problems are there in the skins market?
In 2011 Valve Corporation launched a service for Steam users to exchange in-game items
for games with built-in economy.
In 2016, the Washington State Gambling Commission demanded that Valve developers
stop supporting gambling related to games’ items and the Steam platform.
The government organization that manages all gambling activities in the state where
Valve is located said that Gabe Newell's company “has until October 14, 2016 to respond
and explain how it is in full compliance with Washington’s gambling laws or it will risk
having the Gambling Commission take additional civil or criminal action against the
company.”
According to the press release, the organization contacted Valve in February to find a
solution for the problem of betting skins when users used virtual items, like gambling
chips in a casino, instead of real money.
The legal sports analytical agency published a report on the activities of the largest portal
CS:GO Lounge, which deals with betting on events in e-sports. According to the report,
from January to August 2016, the site has accepted more than 103 million skins worth
about 1 billion dollars. The average total cost of bets on one game was 358 thousand
dollars.
July 13, 2016 Eric Johnson, director of marketing operations of Valve, published a letter
on the Steam website in which he stated that there is no link between Valve Corporation
and online services using Valve's system of exchanging items for their own commercial
purposes. Johnson also said that Valve never received any profit from the actions of such
sites. He added also, that there was no plug-ins for converting skins into real money in
Steam. He said that developers of online casinos used the OpenID API and network calls
similar to those of Steam users to conduct their business, which contradicts the terms of
the Steam Subscriber Agreement. It was announced that Valve was going to send out
warning letters to all identified sites of this kind.
In August 2016, Valve made a newsletter to popular sites that use skins as bets. Some of
the gambling sites switched to skins trading or to bets with virtual currency, not violating
the Steam Subscriber Agreement.
In particular, the largest gambling portal CS: GO Lounge received a ban from Valve on the
skin gambling activity. At the end of September 2016, the portal resumed its activity by
introducing the system of inner currency in the form of coins (points), which does not
violate the policy of Steam.

9

2.2 How we suggest to solve these problems
There is a solution to this problem. A lot of video game websites began to adopt a new business
model by introducing the system of inner currency of coins (points). The skins are exchanged for
a particular number of points and the bets are made not with skins but with points, which
doesn’t break the law or the Steam Subscriber Agreement. To use the points on their websites,
one has to first change them into skins in an inner store.
At any time the player can change his points into the skins and withdraw them from the website.
But the changed business model led to another problem in the skins market. The points from one
platform can’t be used outside this platform, other sites or exchange services will not accept them.
The value of points outside one particular platform is equal to zero. This adds unnecessary steps
and makes the trading process more complicated.
By introducing the cryptocurrency SKINCOIN into the gaming industry we solve the problem of
convenience and safety when it comes to the gaming services. This will protect all types of gaming
platforms as well as exchange services from Valve claims and blocking of accounts on Steam.
Cryptocurrency SKINCOIN does not qualify as a payment method in the usual sense. This protects
SKINCOIN from claims of the regulatory and other governmental institutions.
For introducing SKINCOIN into the current gaming system we are going to launch a service with
a convenient API for the immediate exchange of skins into SKINCOIN and vice versa. On the
exchange website there will be a huge range of the skins to exchange. By using the API of our
exchanging service, third party websites will be able to accept SKINCOIN as a payment method,
gradually replacing the skins turnover. All the transactions on the gaming websites will be in
SKINCOIN and the website owners won’t have to maintain their stores filled with skins to keep
their site efficient.

2.3. Competitive advantages
A lot of cryptocurrencies have been created in the market. Mainly these cryptocurrencies are
offered to be used under one service or product. What is the difference between SKINCOIN and
its equivalents?
SKINCOIN is created to change the current system of video game services and replace the coins
(points) of different gambling services with skins trading operations. This can be done thanks to
an important quality: any skin can be immediately exchanged for SKINCOIN at a stated price
and vice versa. The client will not have to wait for the next suitable contractor to appear for the
deal. Implementation of SKINCOIN as a universal coin for video game websites will greatly
simplify the skins trading process.
We are going to simplify the whole process of interaction with websites by implementing
SKINCOIN as an alternative to points (coins) of different gambling services. Our team has rich
experience in creating and developing trading platforms for in-game items which will be the base
for launching the exchange service of the skins and SKINCOIN.

10

Since 2013 we have launched the following projects:
STEAMTRADE (Steamtrade.net) – trading platform for in-game items from Steam
Supported games: CS:GO, Dota 2, Team Fortress 2.
STEAMTRADE allows to sell items “in a few clicks”. All purchased items are combined into one
singular trade according to the exchange offer from Steam. Thus the client doesn’t have to
approve every single transaction which could suggest great difficulties for wholesale traders. Our
competitors don’t have this solution yet.
Daily turnover: 15 000+ transactions.
SKINWIN (Skinwin.com) – gaming platform with different types of games. The bets can be made
with skins and their own points.
Daily turnover: 8 000+ transactions.
CASECLUB (Case.club) – a shop of “random” skins for CS:GO. The service allows to “open” the
cases from CS:GO directly on the website and use them in the game at once. This way of “case
opening” gained great popularity in 2013. Our team was the first one to launch websites
(Case.club (former Countershop.ru), Dotashop.net) for opening CS:GO and Dota 2 cases outside
of Steam. Before that it was only possible to open cases inside Steam.
Daily turnover: 2 500+ transactions.
As you can see, we are not launching the SKINCOIN project from scratch. We already have a lot
of experience in the development and promotion of gaming services as well as a strong team of
developers.
Tokens trading with SKINCOIN is planned to be implemented into the infrastructure of our already
operating projects. This will allow to get the approved infrastructural demand for SKINCOIN
tokens.
The most important competitors of SKINCOIN are:



FIRST BLOOD (http://firstblood.io/)
ROUNDCOIN (http://roundcoin.org/)

Both projects involve creating competitive modes and hosting games with the help of blockchain.
The problem of these competitors is that the decentralized matchmaking (competitive regime
according to which the winning side gets a prize in the form of tokens) doesn’t have the
monetization of the leading game services and trading platforms. We, on the other hand, have a
ready backend and are able to launch a similar service in a couple of months. However, the low
monetization of matchmaking services makes us focus on more global issues.
As you can see from the list above – our product is a unique service which has not been
implemented by other market players. Our distinction is that we do not launch a cryptocurrency
for one particular product. We are creating a whole infrastructure for the trading of skins which
includes a big number of various services and monetization possibilities.

11

Potential partners of SKINCOIN:
OPSKINS (www.opskins.com)
A platform for CS: GO skins trading. Potential partner for implementing SKINCOIN.
BITSKINS (https://bitskins.com)
A platform for CS: GO skins trading. Has a possibility to accept payments in BTC. Has its own API
connector. Potential partner for implementing SKINCOIN.
LOOTMARKET (https://www.lootmarket.com)
A platform for CS: GO and Dota 2 skins trading. Potential partner for implementing SKINCOIN.
CSGO (https://csgo.tm/)
A biggest platform for CS: GO skins trading for the Russian market.
SKIN HUNT (www.skin-hunt.com/)
A platform for CS: GO skins trading localized for the Russian market.
CSGODEP (www.csgodep.com/)
A service for matchmaking. A potential partner for implementing bets in SKINCOIN.
We are creating a system in which all the platforms listed above will be able to participate in a
united process of trading. With the help of our API system any platform will be able to quickly
integrate the SKINCOIN trading into their services. This will guarantee the raise of total skins
market liquidity and furthermore will lead to the SKINCOIN price increase.

12

3.

ICO

3.1. ICO Goals
Our idea is to create a platform of immediate exchange of the skins for cryptocurrency which is a
liquid asset that can further be used in a skins speculative trading, replace the skins on gaming
services or be used in conversion of the income received from selling the skins.
To do so, we need the working capital for executing obligations of sellers and buyers of the skins,
as well as the marketing capital which will allow operating the project at scale.
We expect our project to be appealing for the members of the crypto-community, who will be
able to participate in the market growth with their investments, as well as for the members of the
Steam-community, who will take part in building the new market infrastructure.

3.2. ICO parameters
ICO Start Date: 21 June 2017 12:00 UTC
ICO End Date: 21 July 2017 12:00 UTC
Issuance of SKIN Tokens: 1 000 000 000
Token Exchange rate: 6 000 SKINS = 1 ETH.
Minimum transaction amount: 600 SKIN (0.1 ETH)
Maximum transaction amount: 18 000 000 SKIN (3 000 ETH)
Bonuses: in the first two days the participants will get a 20% tokens bonus
Bounty: 12 000 000 Tokens (1,2% of issuance)
Total Sale goal: 100 000 ETH
Minimal Sale goal: 5 000 ETH

Token emission and distribution rules:
58,8% (588 million tokens) will be available to participants;

30% (300 million tokens) will remain in the SKINCOIN Foundation until the official
exchange is launched, the tokens will be used as starting turnover to exchange skins at the market
rate on own current and partners projects, and will be used to form a stable market and for further
development over the next five years. Tokens will be stored on a wallet with multi-signatures;

10% (100 million tokens) will be distributed among team members;

All collected funds shall be received and stored on wallets with multi-signatures.


13

3.3. ICO allocation structure and Marketing:
Marketing

60% (max 60 000 ETH)

Development

20% (max 20 000 ETH)

Scaling the service

20% (max 20 000 ETH)

The biggest part of the attracted funds will be spent on marketing which is necessary to maximize
the coverage of the market with SKIN-tokens. In case of achieving the total sale goal the marketing
budget will be distributed as follows:

Marketing

Youtube advertising (gaming
bloggers and streamers)

10%

Sponsoring eSports
tournaments

10%

50%
20%

Advertising on Twitch,
Youtube-gaming, etc. Streams
platforms
Organisation of eSports
tournaments with a prize
Fund

10%

Advertising on relevant
Internet resources

14

4.

Why contribute in SKINCOIN

The number of issued tokens is limited by 1 000 000 000 SKIN. The additional emission of tokens
is forbidden. All the unplaced tokens are to be destroyed.
After the ICO we plan to implement the payments in SKINCOIN on Steamtrade.net, Skinwin.com,
Case.club, Skin-hunt.com, Csgodep.com. We forecast that these platforms together will offer the
demand of up to 50% of the total cost of the publicly traded tokens.
We forecast to occupy the 10% skins market share (approximately $700 million). Therefore, the
demand for tokens can potentially outpace the value of publicly traded tokens by 20 times.
The purchase of SKINCOIN at ICO gives you an opportunity to enter the infrastructure project
with twentyfold potential value growth at a low cost.
After ICO SKINCOIN will be available for purchase in cryptocurrency exchanges (we are
negotiating with Bittrex).

4.1. Roadmap and Development plan
Our main product under this ICO is creating an exchange service to change skins into SKINCOIN
and vice versa with a convenient API for connecting to the third party websites, so that they can
accept payments in SKINCOIN without having to open and maintain their own stores. We simplify
the whole process of the skins exchange and solve the problem of the exchange speed as well as
significantly expand the range of the available skins.
- In July 2017, we are launching the first decentralized SKINCOIN crypto currency for buying,
selling skins, and gaming services. SKINCOIN will solve the problem of the diversity of domestic
currencies for gambling websites and the lack of real value of coins beyond their limits.
- In July 2017, all our projects (Steamtrade.net, Skinwin.com, Case.club and Dotashop.net) will
begin to use SKINCOIN, which will guarantee the demand for it.
- In August 2017, we launch the main platform for exchanging SKINCOIN for skins. Users will be
able to instantly exchange skins for SKINCOIN and back at any time.
- After the launch of the exchange platform, an API will be developed for receiving and converting
skins in SKINCOIN (SKIN) for third-party websites, related to CS: GO, Dota 2 and Team Fortress 2.
After the API is available for our partners we are going to focus on the partners’ base enlargement
covered by the budget and our competitive advantages. That will boost our market share and
raise the demand for SKINCOIN.

15

5.

Some technical aspects of the exchange service’s API

All the platforms that have connected to the API of our exchange service, will get an opportunity
to quickly receive payments and make all transactions with the users in SKINCOIN. The user can
top up his balance on the website and his exchange interface with the inventory will be
downloaded through the API. By choosing the necessary number of items the user immediately
exchanges his skins via our service and we transfer SKINCOIN to the balance of the user on our
partner’s website. Right after this the user will be able to make all the transactions on the third
party website in SKINCOIN.
The rate of SKINCOIN on trading platforms and exchanges will be calculated as the median stock
market rate of the major cryptocurrency stock markets. The exchange rates of skins will be
updated every 2 hours. This is done to avoid clients’ risks which has to minimize abrupt changes
of the price.
A special wallet will be created for a convenient storage of SKINCOIN. With its help it will be easy
to transfer SKINCOIN between different trading platforms, stock exchange, exchange points and
game services.

Identification on the exchange platforms will be possible through the Steam account. In fact, the
buyer will be able to buy a skin with SKINCOIN and immediately use it in the gaming process.
Besides, the instructions will be created for the users and our partners, which will thoroughly
describe the opportunities by the SKINCOIN project and how to use them.

16

6.

Team

We have an experienced, well-organized team. Since 2013, we have been creating, developing
and supporting our own highly loaded marketplace and gaming projects in the cybersport area
with a turnover of more than $10 million per year.
Alexey Zakharov (LINKEDIN), Founder
Graduated from Humanitarian institute of Moscow in 2011 as
specialist in Applied Informatics in Economics. Has been working at
Hewlett-Packard, Merlion, Open Technologies. Has a extensive
experience as an entrepreneur. He has launched and brought to
payback more than seven projects in the gaming area related to the
game items CS:GO, Dota 2 since 2013. Alexey is the owner of the CIS
largest platform for monitoring CS 1.6 servers with more than 30
thousand unique users a day. Excellent expertise in grocery sales, marketing, SEO and relationships
with team.

Igor Solomatin (LINKEDIN), Co-Founder, CEO
Graduated from Russian State Technological University MATI in 2009
as specialist in radio and electronics engineering. Had been working
for three years as data center engineer in Lukoil-Inform, 100%
subsidiary of Russian oil giant Lukoil. Has extensive experience in
promoting products of American company Hewlett-Packard in the
Russian market. Successful experience in launching and promoting
Internet projects. Starting from 2013 he has been co-founder and CEO
of gaming projects related to Steam and the market of game items (skins) with a turnover of more
than $1 million per month.

Alexander Kravin (LINKEDIN), leading architect-developer (full-stack)
Graduated from Nizhny Novgorod State Technical University in 2004
with engineer’s degree in information technology. Highly experienced
java developer with more than 10 years in the field of complicated and
highly loaded systems software development. Developed applications
for telecommunication companies, banks and State structures from
scratch. Since 2015, develops game services, applications for
administration and monitoring. Leading architect-developer of
Steamtrade.net, Skinwin.com.

17

Alexey Bazlov (LINKEDIN), developer (back-end)
Kuban State University’s graduate with bachelor’s degree in IT.
Since 2008, he has been developing game servers for online games,
working with the network part, interacting with the client-server,
optimizing the work of high-load projects. Starting from 2012, he has
been working with Steam projects. Developer of the Skinwin.com and
Case.club projects.

Oleg Agayev, developer (front-end)
Graduate of two universities: Lobachevsky State University of Nizhny
Novgorod and Nizhny Novgorod State Technical University. Eight
years of web development experience (full-stack developer). For a
long time he held the position of full-stack developer of a large
corporate b2b portal based on the Laravel and AngularJS
frameworks. Great experience with developing popular gaming
services adjacent to the Steam platform. Platform developer of
Steamtrade.net, Skinwin.com, Case.club.
Hasan Delic (LINKEDIN), designer (UI / UX)
Student of International University of Sarajevo (visual arts and
communications design). Has a great experience of UX/UI design in
eSports industry. Great vision in design of game industry. Creator of
the Skinwin.com, eSportsmate.com, Ninjas in Pyjamas, Escape
Gaming, Luckbox.

18

