PAYMENT PLATFORM
WHITEPAPER
Final Version: June 21st 2017

1

IMPORTANT NOTICE
PLEASE READ THIS SECTION AND THE FOLLOWING SECTIONS ENTITLED
“DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY”, “NO REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES”,
“REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES BY YOU”, “CAUTIONARY NOTE ON
FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS”,
“MARKET
AND
INDUSTRY
INFORMATION AND NO CONSENT OF OTHER PERSONS”, “NO ADVICE”, “NO
FURTHER INFORMATION OR UPDATE”, “RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION
AND DISSEMINATION”, “NO OFFER OF SECURITIES OR REGISTRATION” AND
“RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES” CAREFULLY.
IF YOU ARE IN ANY DOUBT AS TO THE ACTION YOU SHOULD TAKE, YOU
SHOULD CONSULT YOUR LEGAL, FINANCIAL, TAX OR OTHER PROFESSIONAL
ADVISOR(S).
The PAY tokens are not intended to constitute securities in any jurisdiction. This Whitepaper
does not constitute a prospectus or offer document of any sort and is not intended to constitute an
offer of securities or a solicitation for investment in securities in any jurisdiction.
This Whitepaper does not constitute or form part of any opinion on any advice to sell, or any
solicitation of any offer by the distributor/vendor of the PAY tokens (the “Distributor”) to
purchase any PAY tokens nor shall it or any part of it nor the fact of its presentation form the
basis of, or be relied upon in connection with, any contract or investment decision.
The Distributor will be an affiliate of TenX Pte. Ltd. (“TenX”), and will deploy all proceeds of
sale of the PAY tokens to fund TenX’s cryptocurrency project, businesses and operations.
No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment in relation to the sale
and purchase of the PAY tokens and no cryptocurrency or other form of payment is to be
accepted on the basis of this Whitepaper.
Any agreement as between the Distributor and you as a purchaser, and in relation to any sale and
purchase, of PAY tokens (as referred to in this Whitepaper) is to be governed by only a separate
document setting out the terms and conditions (the “T&Cs”) of such agreement. In the event of
any inconsistencies between the T&Cs and this Whitepaper, the former shall prevail.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
2 of 51

You are not eligible and you are not to purchase any PAY tokens in the TenX Initial Token Sale
(as referred to in this Whitepaper) if you are a citizen, resident (tax or otherwise) or green card
holder of the United States of America or a citizen or resident of the Republic of Singapore.
No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out in this
Whitepaper. No such action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or
rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper does
not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with.
There are risks and uncertainties associated with TenX and/or the Distributor and their respective
businesses and operations, the PAY tokens, the TenX Initial Token Sale and the TenX Wallet
(each as referred to in this Whitepaper).
This Whitepaper, any part thereof and any copy thereof must not be taken or transmitted to any
country where distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper is prohibited or restricted.
No part of this Whitepaper is to be reproduced, distributed or disseminated without including this
section and the following sections entitled “Disclaimer of Liability”, “No Representations and
Warranties”, “Representations and Warranties By You”, “Cautionary Note On Forward-Looking
Statements”, “Market and Industry Information and No Consent of Other Persons”, “Terms
Used”, “No Advice”, “No Further Information or Update”, “Restrictions On Distribution and
Dissemination”, “No Offer of Securities Or Registration” and “Risks and Uncertainties”.
DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
To the maximum extent permitted by the applicable laws, regulations and rules, TenX and/or the
Distributor shall not be liable for any indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of
any kind, in tort, contract or otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or
profits, and loss of use or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or reliance
on this Whitepaper or any part thereof by you.
NO REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
TenX and/or the Distributor does not make or purport to make, and hereby disclaims, any
representation, warranty or undertaking in any form whatsoever to any entity or person,
including any representation, warranty or undertaking in relation to the truth, accuracy and
completeness of any of the information set out in this Whitepaper.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
3 of 51

REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES BY YOU
By accessing and/or accepting possession of any information in this Whitepaper or such part
thereof (as the case may be), you represent and warrant to TenX and/or the Distributor as
follows:
(a)

you agree and acknowledge that the PAY tokens do not constitute securities in any form
in any jurisdiction;

(b)

you agree and acknowledge that this Whitepaper does not constitute a prospectus or offer
document of any sort and is not intended to constitute an offer of securities in any
jurisdiction or a solicitation for investment in securities and you are not bound to enter
into any contract or binding legal commitment and no cryptocurrency or other form of
payment is to be accepted on the basis of this Whitepaper;

(c)

you agree and acknowledge that no regulatory authority has examined or approved of the
information set out in this Whitepaper, no action has been or will be taken under the laws,
regulatory requirements or rules of any jurisdiction and the publication, distribution or
dissemination of this Whitepaper to you does not imply that the applicable laws,
regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with;

(d)

you agree and acknowledge that this Whitepaper, the undertaking and/or the completion
of the TenX Initial Token Sale, or future trading of the PAY tokens on any
cryptocurrency exchange, shall not be construed, interpreted or deemed by you as an
indication of the merits of the TenX and/or the Distributor, the PAY tokens, the TenX
Initial Token Sale and the TenX Wallet (each as referred to in this Whitepaper);

(e)

the distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper, any part thereof or any copy thereof,
or acceptance of the same by you, is not prohibited or restricted by the applicable laws,
regulations or rules in your jurisdiction, and where any restrictions in relation to
possession are applicable, you have observed and complied with all such restrictions at
your own expense and without liability to TenX and/or the Distributor;

(f)

you agree and acknowledge that in the case where you wish to purchase any PAY tokens,
the PAY tokens are not to be construed, interpreted, classified or treated as:

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
4 of 51

(i)

any kind of currency other than cryptocurrency;

(ii)

debentures, stocks or shares issued by any person or entity (whether TenX and/or
the Distributor)

(i)

rights, options or derivatives in respect of such debentures, stocks or shares;

(ii)

rights under a contract for differences or under any other contract the purpose or
pretended purpose of which is to secure a profit or avoid a loss;

(iii)

units in a collective investment scheme;

(iv)

units in a business trust;

(v)

derivatives of units in a business trust; or

(vi)

any other security or class of securities.

(g)

you are fully aware of and understand that you are not eligible to purchase any PAY
tokens if you are a citizen, resident (tax or otherwise) or green card holder of the United
States of America or a citizen or resident of the Republic of Singapore;

(h)

you have a basic degree of understanding of the operation, functionality, usage, storage,
transmission mechanisms and other material characteristics of cryptocurrencies,
blockchain-based software systems, cryptocurrency wallets or other related token storage
mechanisms, blockchain technology and smart contract technology;

(i)

you are fully aware and understand that in the case where you wish to purchase any PAY
tokens, there are risks associated with TenX and the Distributor and their respective
business and operations, the PAY tokens, the TenX Initial Token Sale and the TenX
Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper);

(j)

you agree and acknowledge that neither TenX nor the Distributor is liable for any
indirect, special, incidental, consequential or other losses of any kind, in tort, contract or
otherwise (including but not limited to loss of revenue, income or profits, and loss of use
or data), arising out of or in connection with any acceptance of or reliance on this
Whitepaper or any part thereof by you; and

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
5 of 51

(k)

all of the above representations and warranties are true, complete, accurate and nonmisleading from the time of your access to and/or acceptance of possession this
Whitepaper or such part thereof (as the case may be).

CAUTIONARY NOTE ON FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
All statements contained in this Whitepaper, statements made in press releases or in any place
accessible by the public and oral statements that may be made by TenX and/or the Distributor or
their respective directors, executive officers or employees acting on behalf of TenX or the
Distributor (as the case may be), that are not statements of historical fact, constitute “forwardlooking statements”. Some of these statements can be identified by forward-looking terms such
as “aim”, “target”, “anticipate”, “believe”, “could”, “estimate”, “expect”, “if”, “intend”, “may”,
“plan”, “possible”, “probable”, “project”, “should”, “would”, “will” or other similar terms.
However, these terms are not the exclusive means of identifying forward-looking statements. All
statements regarding TenX’s and/or the Distributor’s financial position, business strategies, plans
and prospects and the future prospects of the industry which TenX and/or the Distributor is in are
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements, including but not limited to
statements as to TenX’s and/or the Distributor’s revenue and profitability, prospects, future
plans, other expected industry trends and other matters discussed in this Whitepaper regarding
TenX and/or the Distributor are matters that are not historic facts, but only predictions.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other
factors that may cause the actual future results, performance or achievements of TenX and/or the
Distributor to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements
expected, expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These factors include,
amongst others:
(a)

changes in political, social, economic and stock or cryptocurrency market conditions, and
the regulatory environment in the countries in which TenX and/or the Distributor
conducts its respective businesses and operations;

(b)

the risk that TenX and/or the Distributor may be unable or execute or implement their
respective business strategies and future plans;

(c)

changes in interest rates and exchange rates of fiat currencies and cryptocurrencies;

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
6 of 51

(d)

changes in the anticipated growth strategies and expected internal growth of TenX and/or
the Distributor;

(e)

changes in the availability and fees payable to TenX and/or the Distributor in connection
with their respective businesses and operations;

(f)

changes in the availability and salaries of employees who are required by TenX and/or
the Distributor to operate their respective businesses and operations;

(g)

changes in preferences of customers of TenX and/or the Distributor;

(h)

changes in competitive conditions under which TenX and/or the Distributor operate, and
the ability of TenX and/or the Distributor to compete under such conditions;

(i)

changes in the future capital needs of TenX and/or the Distributor and the availability of
financing and capital to fund such needs;

(j)

war or acts of international or domestic terrorism;

(k)

occurrences of catastrophic events, natural disasters and acts of God that affect the
businesses and/or operations of TenX and/or the Distributor;

(l)

other factors beyond the control of TenX and/or the Distributor; and

(m)

any risk and uncertainties associated with TenX and/or the Distributor and their
businesses and operations, the PAY tokens, the TenX Initial Token Sale and the TenX
Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper).

All forward-looking statements made by or attributable to TenX and/or the Distributor or persons
acting on behalf of TenX and/or the Distributor are expressly qualified in their entirety by such
factors. Given that risks and uncertainties that may cause the actual future results, performance
or achievements of TenX and/or the Distributor to be materially different from that expected,
expressed or implied by the forward-looking statements in this Whitepaper, undue reliance must
not be placed on these statements. These forward-looking statements are applicable only as of
the date of this Whitepaper.
Neither TenX, the Distributor nor any other person represents, warrants and/or undertakes that
the actual future results, performance or achievements of TenX and/or the Distributor will be as
discussed in those forward-looking statements. The actual results, performance or achievements
of TenX and/or the Distributor may differ materially from those anticipated in these forwardlooking statements.
Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
7 of 51

Nothing contained in this Whitepaper is or may be relied upon as a promise, representation or
undertaking as to the future performance or policies of TenX and/or the Distributor.
Further, TenX and/or the Distributor disclaim any responsibility to update any of those forwardlooking statements or publicly announce any revisions to those forward-looking statements to
reflect future developments, events or circumstances, even if new information becomes available
or other events occur in the future.
MARKET AND INDUSTRY INFORMATION AND NO CONSENT OF OTHER
PERSONS
This Whitepaper includes market and industry information and forecasts that have been obtained
from internal surveys, reports and studies, where appropriate, as well as market research,
publicly available information and industry publications. Such surveys, reports, studies, market
research, publicly available information and publications generally state that the information that
they contain has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but there can be no
assurance as to the accuracy or completeness of such included information.
Save for TenX, the Distributor and their respective directors, executive officers and employees,
no person has provided his or her consent to the inclusion of his or her name and/or other
information attributed or perceived to be attributed to such person in connection therewith in this
Whitepaper and no representation, warranty or undertaking is or purported to be provided as to
the accuracy or completeness of such information by such person and such persons shall not be
obliged
to
provide
any
updates
on
the
same.
While TenX and/or the Distributor have taken reasonable actions to ensure that the information
is extracted accurately and in its proper context, TenX and/or the Distributor have not conducted
any independent review of the information extracted from third party sources, verified the
accuracy or completeness of such information or ascertained the underlying economic
assumptions relied upon therein. Consequently, neither TenX, the Distributor, nor their
respective directors, executive officers and employees acting on their behalf makes any
representation or warranty as to the accuracy or completeness of such information and shall not
be obliged to provide any updates on the same.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
8 of 51

TERMS USED
To facilitate a better understanding of the PAY tokens being offered for purchase by the
Distributor, and the businesses and operations of TenX and/or the Distributor, certain technical
terms and abbreviations, as well as, in certain instances, their descriptions, have been used in this
Whitepaper. These descriptions and assigned meanings should not be treated as being definitive
of their meanings and may not correspond to standard industry meanings or usage.
Words importing the singular shall, where applicable, include the plural and vice versa and
words importing the masculine gender shall, where applicable, include the feminine and neuter
genders and vice versa. References to persons shall include corporations.
NO ADVICE
No information in this Whitepaper should be considered to be business, legal, financial or tax
advice regarding TenX, the Distributor, the PAY tokens, the TenX Initial Token Sale and the
TenX Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper). You should consult your own legal,
financial, tax or other professional adviser regarding TenX and/or the Distributor and their
respective businesses and operations, the PAY tokens, the TenX Initial Token Sale and the TenX
Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper). You should be aware that you may be required to
bear the financial risk of any purchase of PAY tokens for an indefinite period of time.
NO FURTHER INFORMATION OR UPDATE
No person has been or is authorised to give any information or representation not contained in
this Whitepaper in connection with TenX and/or the Distributor and their respective businesses
and operations, the PAY tokens, the TenX Initial Token Sale and the TenX Wallet (each as
referred to in the Whitepaper) and, if given, such information or representation must not be relied
upon as having been authorised by or on behalf of TenX and/or the Distributor. The TenX Initial
Token Sale (as referred to in the Whitepaper) shall not, under any circumstances, constitute a
continuing representation or create any suggestion or implication that there has been no change,
or development reasonably likely to involve a material change in the affairs, conditions and
prospects of TenX and/or the Distributor or in any statement of fact or information contained in
this Whitepaper since the date hereof.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
9 of 51

RESTRICTIONS ON DISTRIBUTION AND DISSEMINATION
The distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper or any part thereof may be prohibited or
restricted by the laws, regulatory requirements and rules of any jurisdiction. In the case where
any restriction applies, you are to inform yourself about, and to observe, any restrictions which
are applicable to your possession of this Whitepaper or such part thereof (as the case may be) at
your own expense and without liability to TenX and/or the Distributor.
Persons to whom a copy of this Whitepaper has been distributed or disseminated, provided
access to or who otherwise have the Whitepaper in their possession shall not circulate it to any
other persons, reproduce or otherwise distribute this Whitepaper or any information contained
herein for any purpose whatsoever nor permit or cause the same to occur.
NO OFFER OF SECURITIES OR REGISTRATION
This Whitepaper does not constitute a prospectus or offer document of any sort and is not
intended to constitute an offer of securities or a solicitation for investment in securities in any
jurisdiction. No person is bound to enter into any contract or binding legal commitment and no
cryptocurrency or other form of payment is to be accepted on the basis of this Whitepaper. Any
agreement in relation to any sale and purchase of PAY tokens (as referred to in this Whitepaper)
is to be governed by only the T&Cs of such agreement and no other document. In the event of
any inconsistencies between the T&Cs and this Whitepaper, the former shall prevail.
You are not eligible to purchase any PAY tokens in the TenX Initial Token Sale (as referred to in
this Whitepaper) if you are a citizen, resident (tax or otherwise) or green card holder of the
United States of America or a citizen or resident of the Republic of Singapore.
No regulatory authority has examined or approved of any of the information set out in this
Whitepaper. No such action has been or will be taken under the laws, regulatory requirements or
rules of any jurisdiction. The publication, distribution or dissemination of this Whitepaper does
not imply that the applicable laws, regulatory requirements or rules have been complied with.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
10 of 51

RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES
Prospective purchasers of PAY tokens (as referred to in this Whitepaper) should carefully
consider and evaluate all risks and uncertainties associated with TenX, the Distributor and their
respective businesses and operations, the PAY tokens, the TenX Initial Token Sale and the TenX
Wallet (each as referred to in the Whitepaper), all information set out in this Whitepaper and the
T&Cs prior to any purchase of PAY tokens. If any of such risks and uncertainties develops into
actual events, the business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects of TenX
and/or the Distributor could be materially and adversely affected. In such cases, you may lose all
or part of the value of the PAY tokens.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
11 of 51

TenX
“At TenX we work on making any blockchain asset spendable
instantly”

What is TenX
When we as the co-founders of TenX got together to start this company, it was our vision to have
assets on the blockchain be not only available to industry insiders, but rather something that can
be used by any individual user in the “real world”.
Additionally, with the emergence of more and more different tokens, a growing number of users
and businesses truly struggle to leverage on the existing infrastructure to make this interconnectedness of physical and virtual platforms become a reality.
At TenX, we strive to offer the user access to as large as possible a range of blockchain assets at
a maximum degree of convenience, while adhering to the highest security standards in the
ecosystem.
We are able to do this by connecting blockchains, leveraging on the COMIT network, including
the COMIT Routing Protocol and the Cross-chain Payment Channels, which works in a
completely trustless, instantaneous and low-cost manner. For further information on the COMIT
network, including the COMIT Routing Protocol and the Cross-chain Payment Channels, please
refer
to
the
whitepaper
in
respect
thereof,
accessible
at
http://www.comit.network/doc/COMIT%20white%20paper%20v1.0.2.pdf.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
12 of 51

To the end-user, we offer the TenX Card, a debit (and, in time to come, credit) card, with an
accompanying TenX Wallet, a mobile wallet that can be funded not only with Bitcoin (BTC),
Ether (ETH), and Dash (DASH) as currently possible, but also with virtually any blockchain
asset in time to come. TenX payment facilities which include the physical and virtual debit card
can be used in almost 200 countries at over 36 million points of acceptance today. This
is possible as we have card issuance partnerships with major credit card companies.
Moreover, users and businesses can exchange their blockchain assets seamlessly from one
user to another in a decentralized manner, removing any risk that is usually associated with
current centralized solutions.

Company Background
When we founded our company in mid-2015, we chose Singapore as our main base. These were
the main considerations we had:
● Singapore is a major and globally recognized financial hub
● The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) is, in our view, open to the development of
start-ups in the FinTech industry
● Southeast Asia is a market with huge growth potential
● According to the World Bank Group,1 50% of the population is still underbanked in
Southeast Asia, China and India
● Singapore is globally connected and recognized, which would greatly assist in business
development and expansion to Europe and the Americas

1

The
information
is
derived
from
the
website
of
the
World
Bank
Group
at
http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/187761468179367706/pdf/WPS7255.pdf#page=3, accessed on 19 June
2017.
The World Bank Group has not provided its consent to the inclusion of the information in this Whitepaper. While
TenX and the Distributor have taken reasonable actions to ensure that the information is extracted accurately and
fairly from such reports and/or publication, and has been included in this Whitepaper in its proper form and context,
neither TenX, the Distributor nor any party has conducted an independent review of the information contained in
such reports nor verified the accuracy of the contents of the relevant information.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
13 of 51

The TenX Team

Toby Hoenisch

Michael Sperk

Paul Kittiwong

Julian Hosp

CEO

CTO

COO

CVO

Chris Miess

Warren Goh

Bettina Schmidt

Tuhina Singh

U-zyn Chua

CFO

Product & User
Experience

Business Operation,
CHO

Blockchain
Developer

Blockchain
Developer

Selected TenX Investors

Vitalik Buterin

Bo Shen

David Lee

Founder of Ethereum Foundation
Partner at Fenbushi Capital

Managing Partner at Fenbushi
Capital

Angel Investor and FinTech
Professor at Singapore Management
University

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
14 of 51

The TenX Wallet
The TenX Wallet is the major game changer as it enables users to spend their blockchain assets
through their smartphone or a physical debit card at over 36 million points of acceptance online
and offline. The TenX App (called the TenX – Blockchain Asset Wallet) is downloadable for
free on Android and we aim to launch the WebApp and iOS versions from July and August 2017
respectively (with the specific launch dates being subject to achievement of the relevant
milestones in the TenX Initial Token Sale, as explained below).

Once the user has downloaded the TenX App, he simply enters his phone number and email
address to set up an account.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
15 of 51

A multi-currency wallet will be created automatically, which the user can then fund with
different cryptocurrencies. The private key to each TenX Wallet is currently secured via an
industry-standard hot & cold storage solution. By the end of 2017, we will directly link the TenX
Wallet to the COMIT network, thereby allowing users to store their own private keys.

The cryptocurrencies do NOT need to be converted to fiat money until an actual transaction
happens, in which case such conversion will be conducted in real-time. The user can choose
between different blockchain assets as a source of payment within the TenX App. Further, the
user can conveniently convert a wide range of blockchain assets such as BTC, ETH and DASH
from one to another by simply using his TenX Wallet.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
16 of 51

The user can choose to order a TenX Card, a virtual and/or physical debit (and in time to come,
credit) card, directly within the TenX App. As a security measure, we allow a user to lock and
unlock his card through the TenX App. This makes our system more secure than traditional
credit and debit card systems.

The user can withdraw his blockchain assets and transfer them to another cryptocurrency wallet
without incurring any fees for such transfer at any time.

Product advantages
●
●
●
●
●

Multi-asset (any blockchain asset compatible with and accepted by the TenX Wallet)
Assets stay in cryptocurrency
Best available foreign exchange and transaction fees (with no other charges)
Decentralized and trustless storage
Global access to 36 million points of acceptance online and offline in close to 200
countries
● Any user from non-US countries can sign up now (sign-ups in the US to follow by the
end of 2017)
● Users earn a 0.1% reward for every purchase they make. This incentive will be
transferred to the user in form of PAY tokens initially on a monthly basis, which
additionally gives them the opportunity to become token holders and further benefit from
a potential value upside of the tokens (see the section below entitled “TenX Initial Token
Sale” for further details). Going forward, TenX aims to distribute the reward more
frequently, with a target of reward distribution on an hourly basis
Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
17 of 51

Fees Comparison Table

Physical card issuing fee
(Incl. shipping & tracking)

Virtual card issuing fee

TenX

WireX & Xapo

TokenCard

$15

$20+

Not applicable

$1.5

$3

Not applicable

$12

Not applicable

FREE
Physical card annual fee

($10 if spend less than
$1000/year)

Virtual card annual fee

($10 if spend less than
$1000/year)

N/A

$12

Domestic exchange fee

0%

0%

1.5%

Foreign exchange fee

0%

3%

4.5%

FREE

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
18 of 51

Product Comparison Table
TenX

WireX & Xapo

Monaco

TokenCard

Bitcoin, Ethereum,
Dash and more

Bitcoin

Bitcoin, Ethereum

Ethereum

Fund Security

Hosted Wallet
and Smart Contract
(with planned integration
with the COMIT network
by Q2 2018)

Hosted Wallet

Hosted Wallet

Smart Contract

Double Spend
Risk

Safe

Safe

Safe

Risky

M and V

V

V

V

Live

Live

Not applicable

Not applicable

Full Control

No Control

Little Control

Partial Control

Yes

No

No

No

0.1% On
Every Purchase

None

None

None

Free

Free
Domestic Only

1%

1.5%

Blockchain Support

Issuer(s)

Status

User’s Fund
Security Control

Open Platform

Card Holder
Incentives

Card Holder
Transaction Fees

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
19 of 51

Status Quo TenX
Status of TenX as of May 2017
● Driven by a talented team of developers, designers, lawyers, marketing experts,
cryptography and security experts, as well as bankers and accountants to lay the base for
exponential growth
● Developed the TenX Wallet to allow for instant multi-asset transactions and payments
● Global debit (and, in time to come, credit) card partnerships to allow for instant payments
accepted at over 36 million merchants worldwide and payments directly with your
blockchain assets
● Leveraging on rapidly growing global cyptocurrency user-base of 3 million users in the
and the user-base in the traditional financial world.2 Additionally, there are millions of
potential users that are currently unbanked
● Successfully completed a USD 1 million seed round from highly respected investors
(Crunchbase) in March 2017
● Backed by highly experienced investors such as Vitalik Buterin (creator of the Ethereum
foundation), David Lee (FinTech Professor at Singapore Management University), Bo
Shen (Partner at Fenbushi Capital) and many others to guide us on our journey
● Excellent industry support - selected to join the Paypal incubator program in Singapore,3
giving us access to highly valuable legal and commercial support
Current status of the TenX Wallet as of May 2017
2

The information is derived from the website of NewsBTC at http://www.newsbtc.com/2017/05/07/three-millioncryptocurrency-users/, accessed on 19 June 2017.
NewsBTC has not provided its consent to the inclusion of the information in this Whitepaper. While TenX and the
Distributor have taken reasonable actions to ensure that the information is extracted accurately and fairly from such
reports and/or publication, and has been included in this Whitepaper in its proper form and context, neither TenX,
the Distributor nor any party has conducted an independent review of the information contained in such reports nor
verified the accuracy of the contents of the relevant information.
3

The information is derived from the website of Tech In Asia at https://www.techinasia.com/paypal-incubatorstartups-first-cohort, accessed on 19 June 2017.
Tech In Asia has not provided its consent to the inclusion of the information in this Whitepaper. While TenX and the
Distributor have taken reasonable actions to ensure that the information is extracted accurately and fairly from such
reports and/or publication, and has been included in this Whitepaper in its proper form and context, neither TenX,
the Distributor nor any party has conducted an independent review of the information contained in such reports nor
verified the accuracy of the contents of the relevant information.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
20 of 51

●
●
●
●
●

Active product that has been live since the beginning of 2017
Beta test successfully completed with 1,000 users in Singapore
Used for transactions of over USD 100,000 in spending volume during the Beta test
Bitcoin, Ethereum (including ERC20 support) and Dash integrated
International roll-out to all major countries except for the US. The expansion to the US
market will follow by the end of 2017
● WebApp roll-out by July 2017 and iOS roll-out by August 2017 (with the specific launch
dates being subject to achievement of the relevant milestones in the TenX Initial Token
Sale, as explained below)
● Successful transactions carried out in over 50 countries

COMIT Integration
→ We welcome feedback from blockchain and tech-savvy readers on this part of the
Whitepaper.
Payment Flow
TenX Card holders can use any blockchain asset to buy products and services at any of over 36
million merchants that accept global credit cards. We use Cross-chain Payment Channels of the
COMIT network to allow the user to settle incoming payment requests from the credit card
networks in real-time.
The following is an illustration of how a payment is made in real-time from a user’s TenX
Wallet and settled on the credit card network
1. User pays at the merchant using his virtual or physical TenX Card
2. The card network will send an authorization request to our servers for the purchase
amount
3. TenX will send an invoice through the COMIT network to the user
4. The user will then choose which blockchain asset to use for the payment and send the
correct amount to TenX through the COMIT network
5. Upon receiving the corresponding amount for the invoice, TenX will authorize the
payment to the merchant

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
21 of 51

To allow for real-time transactions, the user will need to configure his TenX Wallet with his
preferred default blockchain asset as the payment source and set a spending limit. This only takes
seconds and the user retains full control over his funds at any given time.

Fee Disbursement Flow
For every card transaction a merchant accepts, the merchant pays 0.5-3% in the form of a
merchant discount fee. This fee is then split among his bank, also called the acquiring bank, the
card scheme and the issuing bank. The fee that is paid to the issuing bank is called the
interchange fee. Traditionally this fee is plain profit for the issuer, but often is also used to give
rewards to the user in form of air miles or similar benefits. At TenX, we reward our users with
PAY tokens on every purchase to allow them to become a token holder. Subsequently, PAY
token holders will receive an incentive of 0.5% of the entire payment volume on the TenX
payment platform initially on a monthly basis. TenX aims to distribute the reward in shorter
periods of time in the future, with a target of hourly reward distribution.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
22 of 51

Cross-chain Payment Channel of COMIT network
We use Cross-chain Payment Channels and the COMIT Routing Protocol to allow our users to
use their blockchain assets in real-time in the real world. TenX will be the first liquidity provider
in the network to offer real-world payments. By using the COMIT Routing Protocol, a user can
use any blockchain asset for his payments.

For further information on the COMIT network, including the COMIT Routing Protocol and the
Cross-chain Payment Channels, please refer to the whitepaper in respect thereof, accessible at
http://www.comit.network/doc/COMIT%20white%20paper%20v1.0.2.pdf.

Why build on top of COMIT?
Similar to the way the internet added value by enabling connectivity between local intranets, the
COMIT network adds value to individual blockchains by creating connectivity between them.
The COMIT network is the internet of blockchains. COMIT therefore, will not have to be
created by any individual entity. Instead, it will automatically operate as the ecosystem will
strive to connect separate blockchains.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
23 of 51

This is how the features of the COMIT network compares to those of other transaction solutions:
Traditional Banks

Online Banks

Blockchains

COMIT

Fees

High

Medium

Low

Near Zero

Speed

Slow

Fast

Fast

Instant

Security

Trust-based

Trust-based

Cryptographic

Cryptographic

Control

Centralized

Centralized

Decentralized

Decentralized

Accessibility

Low

Low

Medium

High

Interoperability

Low

Low

Medium

High

Flexibility

Low

Low

Medium

High

Business Profitability

Low

Low

Medium

High

Spurring Growth

Low

Low

Medium

High

Scalability

Low

Medium

Low

High

With this vision in mind, we have developed our company TenX to leverage on the advantages
of the COMIT network.

Timeline Preview Overview
Date

Event

May 2015

Idea of TenX pitched at DBS Blockchain Hackathon, awarded
first prize of SGD 15,000. Invested the money in starting TenX

11th June 2015

TenX officially incorporated in Singapore (previously named as
OnePay)

July 2015

Startup Boot Camp Fintech Accelerator (EiR)

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
24 of 51

August 2015

First MVP (Minimum Viable Product) of the TenX Wallet

February 2016

Angel Round with USD 120,000 invested

July 2016

Admission to the Paypal incubation programme

August 2016

Card issuing partnership signed (m)

September 2016

Alpha version of TenX wallet goes live
Rebranded as TenX

Ocotober 2016

Bitcoin added as the first blockchain asset

January 2017

COMIT whitepaper released

February 2017

Closed Beta test with 1,000 users generating approximately
SGD 100,000 in transaction volume

March 2017

Seed round led by Fenbushi Capital
Over USD 1 million raised
Vitalik Buterin joins as advising investor

April 2017

Registration open for Singaporean users

May 2017

ETH and DASH added as additional assets compatible with
TenX Wallet
Joined Finnish Start-up Sauna for European strategy

June 2017

More card issuing partnership signed (v)
Registration open for users worldwide (with a few exceptions)

June 24th 2017,
9PM Singapore Time/
3PM Munich Time/
9AM New York Time/
2PM London Time

Commencement of TenX Initial Token Sale

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
25 of 51

TenX Initial Token Sale
What is an Initial Token Sale?
An Initial Token Sale (ITS) is an event in which a new cryptocurrency project sells part of its
cryptocurrency tokens to early adopters and enthusiasts in exchange for funding. For the party
offering the tokens for sale, this has become a well-documented and well-respected way to raise
funds to upscale an existing product or service.
The sale by the Distributor of PAY tokens in connection with an Initial Token Sale (the “TenX
Initial Token Sale”) to you as a purchaser thereof, will be subject to and governed by the T&Cs
- which is a separate document setting out the terms and conditions of the agreement as between
the Distributor and you in relation to the TenX Initial Token Sale. In the event of any
inconsistencies between the T&Cs and this Whitepaper, the former shall prevail.
The Distributor will be an affiliate of TenX, and will deploy all proceeds of sale of PAY Tokens
in connection with the TenX Initial Token Sale to fund TenX’s cryptocurrency project, businesses
and operations.
Unless the context requires otherwise, references to “we” or “us” in connection with the TenX
Initial Token Sale shall be construed as references to the Distributor.

The TenX Initial Token Sale is hereby announced on:
June 24th 2017
9PM Singapore Time (UTC+8)/
3PM Munich Time/
9AM New York Time/
2PM London Time
Official Website
www.tenx.tech
Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
26 of 51

Why an Initial Token Sale?
Even though TenX already has a live, multi-asset cryptocurrency wallet with the TenX Wallet,
the leap forward with integration with the COMIT network is anticipated to be more than just a
straight-line progression. Bringing developers, marketing personnel, a legal team, designers and
many other talented people on board will require additional funds. Offering an Initial Token Sale
instead of a traditional venture capital round enables the community to participate in TenX’s
success story, rather than limiting it to a small, selected number of traditional venture capital
funds. Furthermore, by giving PAY tokens to users of the TenX Wallet and the TenX Card,
whenever they use the TenX Card, they will benefit from TenX’s future success. An Initial
Token Sale is fast, transparent and efficient for exactly this purpose.

General Token Sale Overview
On June 24th 2017 starting at 9PM Singapore Time (see the applicable commencement times in
more timezones above), we will offer 51% of all PAY tokens to be created for purchase by the
public in the TenX Initial Token Sale under the ticker symbol PAY. A further 29% of all PAY
tokens to be created will be retained by TenX and/or the Distributor for distribution for
community initiatives, business development, academic research, education and market
expansion, to name just a few. The remaining 20% of PAY tokens to be created will be
distributed to TenX’s founders, employees and early investors as an incentive to ensure long
term alignment of interests and commitment to the tokens and their future value. Further details
of the distribution of tokens are set out below.
Each PAY token will be sold for 1/350 ETH, meaning 1 ETH will give you 350 PAY tokens.
Other accepted cryptocurrencies will be converted live in ETH. There is a minimum purchase
amount of 10 PAY tokens per purchase.
We will accept a maximum (fixed limit) of 200,000 ETH, for purchase of PAY tokens in the
TenX Initial Token Sale. The PAY tokens created for such maximum amount contributed will in
turn represent 51% of all PAY tokens. Should this amount be reached before the end of the sale
on 24 July 2017, 8.59pm Singapore Time (UTC+8), which is 4 weeks after the token sale
commencement date, we will cut off the sale.
In the case of an amount of contribution falling below such maximum amount, the percentage of
51% of all tokens will be adjusted accordingly, with the difference between such lower amount
and the maximum amount being reserved for future token sales.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
27 of 51

Holders of PAY tokens will receive 0.5% of the aggregate payment volume that is spent by all
users with the TenX Card on a monthly basis initially. The payments to the token holders will be
paid in ETH (Ether), or the closest equivalent thereof in the case where ETH is replaced by
another cryptocurrency in the future. Going forward, TenX will strive to distribute the rewards in
shorter time periods, with a target of hourly reward distribution.
Users of the TenX Card will receive 0.1% from each transaction they make with the TenX Card
initially on a monthly basis, as an incentive in the form of PAY tokens (similar to how users are
rewarded with air-miles or other forms of cash back in kind for usage of existing cards today).
This incentive for users of the TenX Card will have a great benefit to existing token holders
since this recurring redistribution of tokens will create an additional demand for tokens in the
market. This additional reward for users in the form of PAY tokens is bought on the open market
and will create price support.
Please note that we will not create any new PAY tokens after the TenX Initial Token Sale.

Important Milestones based on different amounts of funding
received in connection with the TenX Initial Token Sale

If the fund raising in connection with the TenX Initial Token Sale reaches a minimum of at least
50,000 ETH, TenX will be able to offer TenX’s services soon on mobile platforms in addition to
Android, including iOS and WebApp. Further, it is envisaged that TenX will explore the
development and operation of a multi-card platform to expand blockchain assets spending
coverage via further issuing partnerships with issuers such as Unionpay and American Express,
in addition to the current issuing partnerships already established.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
28 of 51

Moreover, funding at this level would enable TenX to add and support more and more different
cryptocurrencies and tokens to offer our users the opportunity to use an even wider variety of
cryptocurrencies in real-world transactions. Integrating more blockchain assets for compatibility
with the TenX Wallet will greatly benefit the user by making more and more of their tokens or
other blockchain assets spendable, as easy as spending a $100 bill.

Funds dedicated

Target Reached

Ca. 7,500 ETH

Programming, testing and going live with the
WebApp including Beta tests, stability tests,
market and user analysis

Ca. 7,500 ETH

Programming, testing and going live with iOS
mobile application including Beta test,
stability tests, market and user analysis

Ca. 25,000 ETH

Identifying and acquiring different new credit
and debit card issuing partnerships for TenX
Integrating the usage of such new cards with
the TenX Wallet
Roll out of multi-card strategy
Recruiting a full-time support staff team going
forward to facilitate transactions services visa-vis the card partners and the card users

Ca. 10,000 ETH

Appointing and coordinating with external
auditors to certify the quality of TenX’s
operations and internal controls in connection
with the TenX Wallet
On the financial side, a Big 4 firm, such as
Deloitte or PwC will provide ongoing
monitoring of our financial and accounting
standards
From a security and IT perspective, TenX will
hire a best-in-class external auditor to
establish a long term working relationship
with them

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
29 of 51

If the TenX Initial Token Sale generates another 50,000 ETH, these funds will enable TenX to
ramp up the development of the COMIT network and TenX will be able to fully integrate it with
the TenX Wallet by Q2 2018.
The COMIT network is a very technically complicated and resource-intensive project. It will
take a lot of resources to establish and finalise it, and it will be a long way until it is live and
operational. However, the COMIT network will fundamentally revolutionise the blockchain
world. In an unprecedented manner, it potentially connects different blockchains without
introducing new hurdles and complications in between them.
The COMIT network will completely change the way the business is conducted and how we
understand today’s blockchain ecosystem. On the COMIT network, a plethora of new
applications, functions and services will be built to create a quantum leap for the blockchain
industry.

Funds Dedicated

COMIT Network
Milestones

Timeline

Ca. 20,000 ETH

Development of first public
Beta version

Q4 2017

Ca. 10,000 ETH

Comprehensive security audit

Q1 2018

Ca. 10,000 ETH

Production release, COMIT
being fully functional and
operational

Q2 2018

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
30 of 51

With the next 50,000 ETH, TenX will be able to apply for a banking license to create an even
better user experience and to gradually integrate fiat currencies into the TenX Wallet and TenX
Card, alongside all the cryptocurrencies to come.
Such banking licence will give TenX and token holders the benefit of significant increases in
revenues from interchange fees and improved control over card fees, card limits, royalty fees as
well as loyalty points programmes such as airlines.
Obtaining a banking licence is a strategic trojan horse into the fiat currency world, and convince
late adopters and late majority users to begin using cryptocurrencies. TenX intends to offer
normal fiat deposits, which will be fully insured by governments of different jurisdictions. TenX
will be able to issue fiat currency-linked tokens on the blockchain for all users and it will be fully
backed by state guarantees. This will allow TenX to become a major systemic hub and one of the
most important financial institutions connecting blockchain assets and the fiat currency world.
A wide variety of institutions ranging from exchanges to blockchain businesses can benefit from
TenX as bridge between these two worlds.
The US is one of the most important financial markets, which requires dedication of legal and
compliance resources. The capital raised will help TenX build global coverage unlike any other
company.

Funds dedicated

Target Reached

Ca. 15,000 ETH

Recruiting a specialised banking team driving
the TenX bank initiative forward in the long
run

Ca. 15,000 ETH

Establishing working dialogues with, or

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
31 of 51

consulting regulatory authorities around the
world
Appointing and coordinating with external
auditors to implement best practices to
facilitate application for a banking license
Membership
in
non-governmental
organisations and governing bodies in crossborder banking regulation
Ca. 15,000 ETH

Applying for banking licences in different
countries across the globe, noting that legal
and compliance fees are different in each
country
Financial and fully-operational teams might
be needed

Ca. 5,000 ETH

Applying for a banking licence in the US,
noting that compliance in the US is likely
more resource-intensive compared to other
countries

To start a decentralized exchange we require liquidity, so payments received which are above
150,000 ETH will be used as liquidity for the COMIT network.
Any successful exchange requires liquidity to commence and maintain operations. This will
allow the COMIT network to have a best in class liquidity and spread. Only with that foundation
we can attract more users and therefore more transaction volume. The more diversified the range
of cryptocurrencies and tokens which the Distributor can accept as payment in the TenX Initial
Token Sale, the more liquidity there will be for the COMIT network.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
32 of 51

Funds dedicated

Target reached

Ca. 50,000 ETH

This liquidity is equal to the current
ShapeShift daily volume. The COMIT
network will be able to provide sustainable
liquidity considering even a uni-directional
market. However, with a bi-directional
market, this liquidity can sustain more than
500,000 ETH in daily volume with potentially
the lowest spread in the market.

TenX Initial Token Sale Summary
Project Description

TenX aims to make any blockchain asset
spendable instantly in the future

TenX Wallet Description

The TenX Wallet is a multi-asset
cryptocurrency wallet that can be used with a
debit (or, in time to come, credit) card
worldwide

Ticker Symbol

PAY

Token Background

PAY is built as an ERC20 token on the
Ethereum blockchain

Start Date

24 June 2017,
9PM Singapore Time (UTC+8)/
3PM Munich Time/
9AM New York Time/
2PM London Time

End Date

24 July 2017,
8.59PM Singapore Time (UTC+8)
2.59PM Munich Time/
8.59AM New York Time/
1.59PM London
Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
33 of 51

(4 weeks after the token sale commencement date)

PAY token price

1 PAY token equals 1/350 ETH (1 ETH will
buy 350 PAY tokens)

Total Percentage of all PAY tokens for public, 80%
comprising (a) and (b) below
(a) Percentage of all PAY tokens for TenX
Initial Token Sale

51%

(b) Percentage of all PAY tokens for
community initiatives etc

29%

Percentage of all PAY tokens for long-term
alignment of interests

20%

Target Amount Sold (Fixed limit)

200,000 ETH worth of PAY Tokens

Project Status

Live product

Escrow of funds

Funds secured in multi-signature escrow
account

Token holder reward

0.5% of entire payment volume spent through
TenX Wallet

Card user incentive

0.1% of user’s individual transactions

Early bird bonus

20% of token purchase amount

Accepted cryptocurrencies for the ITS

Ethereum (ETH), Bitcoin (BTC), ERC20
Tokens and many more (for the full list of
accepted cryptocurrencies, please refer to our
website at https://tokensale.tenx.tech/)

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
34 of 51

Overview of Token Structure
The Distributor will offer 51% of all PAY tokens to be created for purchase by the public in the
TenX Initial Token Sale while a further 29% of the PAY tokens to be created will be retained by
TenX and/or the Distributor to be distributed for purposes including community initiatives,
business development, academic research, education and market expansion. The Distributor
considers this is testament to the fact that TenX wants to be open and inclusive of the community
at large, which TenX perceives as TenX’s most valuable asset. The Distributor considers it is a
strong signal of trust in TenX if the community owns more than half of the PAY tokens from the
very beginning.
At the same time, TenX feels that it is essential that the interests of TenX be aligned with those
of the ecosystem in the long-term. In order to be able to support long term growth in a
sustainable way, founders, early backers and the development team of TenX will be rewarded
with the remaining 20% of tokens in exchange for their efforts and resources contributed to the
development of the TenX Wallet and the COMIT network.

I)

Percentage of tokens (the TenX Initial Token Sale and purposes including
community initiatives, business development, academic research, education and
market expansion)

80%

I.I)

Percentage of tokens for the TenX Initial Token Sale

51%

I.II) Percentage of tokens for purposes including community initiatives, business
development, academic research, education and market expansion

29%

II)

20%

Percentage of tokens for founders, early backers and the development team for
a long term alignment of interests

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
35 of 51

Detailed Breakdown Token Structure
I) 80% of all tokens will be distributed to the public in the long run (for the TenX Initial
Token Sale, community initiatives, etc.)
This will ensure long term growth of the TenX Wallet and the PAY tokens, and will support
development of the ecosystem as a whole. The team at TenX believes in inclusivity and that the
whole is greater than the sum of its parts.
I.I) 51% of all tokens will be distributed during the TenX Initial Token Sale
The funds raised will be used to finance the operations of TenX for the next 4 years. This
includes funding development, administration, marketing, financial and legal costs.
I.II) 29% of all tokens will be distributed for community initiatives etc.
During the next 4 years, 29% of all tokens will be distributed for community initiatives, business
development, academic research, education and market expansion.
This budget will be securely held in publically viewable cryptocurrency wallets and are subject
to scrutiny by the entire community.
● 20%: Business development
In order to incentivize the adoption of PAY tokens and COMIT technology as well as to
promote the development of decentralized applications which are in the infancy stage, 20% of
the total PAY tokens will be dedicated to selected industries and projects. This includes funding
of strategic planning, project support and coin swap initiatives as detailed below.
○ 10% will be used to facilitate the adoption of the PAY tokens and the COMIT
network in selected industries such as financial services, supply chain
management, social media, Internet of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence
○ 10% will be used for coin swaps of PAY tokens with cryptocurrencies of other
blockchain open-source ecosystems. The cryptocurrencies acquired this way will
be distributed among PAY token holders and stakeholders

● 9%: Academic research, education, and market expansion
This part of the token supply will be used to sponsor academic research, educational
materials for developers, as well as promotion of the COMIT network and the sharing of
technologies and contributions with open-source communities. Some of the planned
activities include:
Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
36 of 51

○ Establishing research labs in cooperation with high profile universities
○ Creating tutorials and educational materials for COMIT network developers using
different blockchains such as Ethereum and Bitcoin
○ Cooperating with other open-source communities such as Docker, Linux, Android
to integrate COMIT network libraries into existing developer stacks by default
○ Organising events and conferences to raise the awareness of the COMIT network
technology and facilitate market adoption
II) 20% of all tokens will be distributed amongst founders, early backers and development
team
Founders, early backers and development team will be rewarded with tokens for their efforts and
resources contributed to the development of PAY tokens and TenX.

● 10% will be reserved as an asset in the company to bring value to early investors. TenX
received over USD 1 million from a range of notable blockchain investors and
entrepreneurs, some of which are listed below:
○ Vitalik Buterin, Founder of Ethereum Foundation
○ Bo Shen, Fenbushi Capital managing partner
○ David Lee, Professor at Founder of Ferrell Asset Management Pte Ltd
● 10% will be used by TenX to incentivise founders, employees and the development team.
Each TenX founder and employee will receive part of their compensation package in
PAY tokens, which will vest over 4 years.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
37 of 51

TenX Initial Token Sale Bonus Schedule
One (1) ETH will give you 350 PAY tokens. That means that one PAY token is worth 1/350
ETH. There will be extra tokens offered as a bonus for users who commit earlier (early-bird
bonus). See the time table below for the exact bonus schedule.
Time

Available Token Bonus

First 24h

+20%

Day 2 and day 3

+10%

Day 4 to day 7

+5%

Day 8 to day 14

+2.5%

Final 14 days

no bonus

	

The bonus tokens will be allocated on top of the regular tokens that you are purchasing. For
example, if you are planning to buy tokens for 50 ETH within the first 24 hours, you will receive
17,500 tokens plus another 3,500 tokens as a bonus (which represents 20% of your 17,500 token
purchase), so 21,000 tokens as a total.

Additionally, we offer two extra “goodies”:
If you buy 25 ETH or more worth of tokens, you will be amongst the first recipients of our
new and highly exclusive limited edition TenX Card, which will only be issued in the TenX
Initial Token Sale (subject to availability). The TenX team will release a timestamped list (based
on time of purchase) after the TenX Initial Token Sale as well as details on the procedures for
users to order their cards on http://tenx.tech. The cards can only be delivered to users who have
made payment for the issuing fee and have indicated delivery addresses which are in the list of
countries which we deliver to, in accordance with the information set out on
https://www.tenx.tech/fees.html.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
38 of 51

LIMITED EDITION: TenX Special

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
39 of 51

If you want to be part of the super exclusive TenX token sale founders’ team circle and you
1,250 ETH or more worth of tokens, you will receive the founders’ edition TenX Card, which
will only be issued in the TenX Initial Token Sale (subject to availability). The TenX team will
release a timestamped list (based on time of purchase) after the TenX Initial Token Sale as well
as details on the procedures for users to order their cards on http://tenx.tech. The cards can only
be delivered to users who have made payment for the issuing fee and have indicated delivery
addresses which are in the list of countries which we deliver to, in accordance with the
information set out on https://www.tenx.tech/fees.html.

FOUNDER EDITION: TenX Platinum

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
40 of 51

FOUNDER EDITION: TenX Platinum Case

Amount of PAY tokens
purchased

ETH Equivalent Purchased

Exclusive Card Bonus

8,750 PAY tokens or more

25 ETH or more

Highly exclusive TenX debit
card limited edition. Only up
to 1,000 cards available
worldwide.

437,500 PAY tokens or more

1,250 ETH or more

Super limited founders’
edition TenX platinum card.
Only up to 50 cards available
worldwide. May include other
extra surprise goodies.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
41 of 51

TenX Initial Token Sale Timeline
Commencement of TenX Initial Token Sale

June 24th 2017,
9PM Singapore Time (UTC+8)/
3PM Munich Time/
9AM New York Time/
2PM London Time

24 hours bonus

20%

Next 2 days

10%

Next 4 days

5%

Next 7 days

2.5%

End of TenX Initial Token Sale

July 24th 2017,
8.59PM Singapore Time (UTC+8)
2.59PM Munich Time/
8.59AM New York Time/
1.59PM London
(4 weeks after the token sale commencement date)

Distribution of PAY tokens

Planned distribution starts 2-3 days after the
end of the TenX Initial Token Sale

Commencement of trading

Planned trading commences in August 2017

Commencement of transferability

On the first day of trading

Funds Escrow
All payments received for PAY tokens in connection with the TenX Initial Token Sale will be
held in escrow in a multi-signature address, with a multi key structure. Keys of this multisignature account will stay with TenX, Fenbushi and Ferrell Asset Management Pte Ltd.
Fenbushi is one of the most respected firms in the Ethereum ecosystem. Ferrell Asset
Management Pte Ltd is a MAS-licensed multi-asset manager which has been in operation for
more than 20 years, and was founded by one of our advisors, Mr. David Lee.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
42 of 51

Funding Breakdown
As mentioned above, a certain part of the PAY tokens will be retained by TenX and/or the
Distributor after the TenX Initial Token Sale to ensure the long-term alignment of interests. It is
important for TenX that the community understands how these funds will be spent. The pie-chart
below illustrates how such PAY tokens that are retained by TenX and/or the Distributor after the
conclusion of the TenX Initial Token Sale will be allocated.

● Integration of the COMIT network: The COMIT network will be the backbone to operate
the TenX Wallet in a decentralised, instant and true multi-asset manner. The largest
portion of our funds will go towards integrating our TenX App and the TenX Wallet with
the COMIT network
● Marketing and sales: The TenX team is driven by some of the best marketing experts in
our team. TenX will continue to run its marketing efforts on a very lean, cost-efficient
basis and keep user acquisition costs one of the lowest in the industry. For further details,
please refer to the section entitled “Go-to market strategy” below
● Multi-platform support: TenX will continuously support and introduce new features, user
interfaces and language support for the TenX Wallet on iOS, WebApp and Android
● Development fund: A small portion of the funds will be dedicated for strategic
partnerships to enhance the revenue stream for our PAY token holders. This could be, for
example, in the form of co-branding and co-marketing initiatives with other companies

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
43 of 51

● Administration and operations: TenX is running a very lean, cost-effective start-up and
will continue to do so in the future. Being in the blockchain ecosystem and adhering to
the highest standards, there are some operational costs associated with accounting and
administrative overheads to take care of the business processes needed for a growing
international business
● Legal: One of our primary focuses when starting this company in early 2015 was to
establish a solid legal foundation for TenX. We have been in direct contact with the
MAS, have built our in-house legal & compliance team with the help of Paypal and are
deeply connected in Singapore to raise awareness for this amazing new technology in the
legal world. In particular, TenX has engaged the legal services of Dentons Rodyk &
Davidson LLP to advise on the TenX Initial Token Sale
Based on TenX’s earlier successful USD 1 million seed round, TenX is confident to complete a
successful Series A fundraising exercise in the near future. Depending on whether the funding
goal is reached in the TenX Initial Token Sale, this can be between 9 to 24 months from now.
In TenX’s opinion, the later TenX raises its Series A, the higher its valuation will be. This will
also have a positive knock-on effect on holders of PAY tokens.
Important notice once again: TenX and/or the Distributor will not create any new PAY tokens
after the TenX Initial Token Sale.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
44 of 51

TenX Initial Token Sale Procedure
To participate in the PAY token sale, we accept the following currencies:
●
●
●
●

Ethereum (ETH)
Bitcoin (BTC)
ERC20 Tokens
And many more (for the full list of accepted cryptocurrencies, please refer to our website
at https://tokensale.tenx.tech/)

The tokens will be delivered to the purchaser after the purchase. Transferability will start from
the first day of trading, which is planned to start anytime from August 2017.

Usage of Currencies
For TenX it is super important to be inclusive of as many crypto-communities as possible, as
TenX strongly believes that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts.
For this reason, the Distributor will strive to offer the possibility to allow contributions of as
many different tokens and cryptocurrencies as possible for the TenX Initial Token Sale. The
Distributor’s goal is to unite as many different crypto-communities in support of TenX as
possible and provide them with a platform to spend their tokens and coins using our product. It
was a lot of work, but TenX has managed to find secure ways to accept such a wide variety of
tokens and cryptocurrencies.
As an additional incentive for the community, when an equivalent of 2000 ETH in respect of
cryptocurrencies or tokens in the TenX Initial Token Sale has been received as payments, TenX
will dedicate our resources to the integration of such additional cryptocurrencies or tokens such
that they are accepted and compatible with the TenX Card and TenX Wallet to allow you to use
such cryptocurrencies or tokens for any payments with the TenX Wallet. For example, if we
receive an equivalent of 2000 ETH or more in Litecoins, we will strive to integrate Litecoin for
compatibility with the TenX Wallet.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
45 of 51

Equivalent of ETH

Incentive

Contribution of tokens and cryptocurrencies
in the equivalent value of 2000 ETH

Such cryptocurrency or token will be
integrated in the TenX Wallet and the user
will be able to spend it directly via the TenX
Card

For each token and cryptocurrency on the list above, you will receive PAY tokens in exchange,
just as if you bought them with Ether or Bitcoin instead. The exchange rate that will be used to
calculate this will be based on the rate of the currency or token you would like to use vis-a-vis
Ethereum.
For example, if users buy PAY tokens in the equivalent value of 2000 ETH or more in ZCash,
TenX will integrate ZCash in its TenX Wallet and users will be able to spend their tokens
directly with the TenX Card and the TenX App.

Illustration of Benefits
Following is an illustration of benefits accruing to the token holders. Please bear in mind that all
numbers are assumptions based on our best estimates.
Number of users

1 million

Average spend per user per month

USD 100

Total annual spending volume through TenX
Wallet

USD 1.2 billion

Allocated revenue incentive (0.5%)

USD 6 million

Illustrative market cap

USD 20 million

Revenue incentive / market cap

30% per annum

Based on recent observations of the ecosystem, TenX perceives these numbers as realistic rather
than optimistic. Benefits to token holders are linearly associated with the number of users and
volume of payments through the Tenx Wallet. This can be calculated with the following formula:

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
46 of 51

Number of users: U
Average spend per user per month: S
PAY Market Cap: M

Next Steps
Date

Event

July 24th 2017,
8.59PM Singapore Time (UTC+8)
2.59PM Munich Time/
8.59AM New York Time/
1.59PM London

Conclusion of the TenX Initial Token Sale

(4 weeks after the token sale commencement date)

July 2017

Announcement of partnerships with exchange
Rollout of ERC20 Token support for Pay
tokens
Launch of WebApp version of the TenX
wallet

August 2017

Launch of iOS version of the TenX App

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
47 of 51

September 2017

Additional partnerships with exchanges and
currencies for TenX Wallet

Q4 2017

Operational status of decentralised secure
smart contracts (DSS)

Q4 2017

Launch of initial live version of COMIT

Q1 2018

Comprehensive testing and audits on security
of the COMIT network

Q2 2018

Full integration of the COMIT network

Q3 2018

COMIT platform accessible by developers

Q4 2018

Onboarding of other blockchain assets such as
exchange traded funds (ETFs), derivatives and
other investment products

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
48 of 51

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
49 of 51

Go-to market Strategy

Conclusion
We at TenX believe that blockchain technologies and cryptocurrency payments are the way of
payments in the future. In order to make such payments possible for all consumers with
maximum convenience, we aim to connect the blockchains in the background and offer the user
an easy-to-use interface so he has instant access to any of his blockchain assets.
With the TenX Initial Token Sale to be conducted by the Distributor, a wide range of individuals
will have the opportunity to participate in our long-term growth and success story to
fundamentally change the world of payments, transactions and banking.
Our ultimate vision is for any asset on any blockchain, be it real estate, gold or a cryptocurrency,
to be as spendable as a $100 bill in your pocket.
Be part of our success story and join the TenX Initial Token Sale. We are looking forward to
welcoming you on-board our journey into the future.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
50 of 51

Formerly

Acknowledgements
We would like to thank anyone not directly mentioned in this Whitepaper in supporting and
assisting us over all this time. We also wish to thank the entire blockchain community for laying
the foundation over the past 8 years. A special thank you also goes out to anyone involved with
the Lightning Network for your groundbreaking research.

Copyright 2017 @ TenX PTE LTD
team@tenx.tech
51 of 51

