A CROWDSOURCED
LIVE MUSIC ECOSYSTEM
AND A BLOCKCHAIN-BASED
MARKETPLACE WHERE
ANYONE CAN PARTICIPATE

“Everything around you that you call life
was made up by people that were no
smarter than you and you can change it,
you can influence it, you can build your
own things that other people can use.
Once you learn that, you’ll never be the
same again.”
Steve Jobs

1.	ABSTRACT

This paper describes the crowdsourced booking and payment platform for the live music
industry that will ultimately be scaled to all live creative engagements. Based on the
Ethereum platform, it utilizes smart contracts that solve decades-old problems that live
performers have with getting demand, determining their value/price, negotiating terms,
executing agreements and getting paid. Its main pillars are an innovative database of
millions of artist profiles, ranked according to social media popularity; a tokenized incentive
program for musicians’ fans; a talent booking process; and a blockchain-based contract
and payment system.
The paper explains two main parts:
•	
The core focus of the service: live music ecosystem database
	
and a live music marketplace, and
•	
the implementation of the blockchain technology and the Viberate token (VIB).

2.	 MISSION STATEMENT

We are focused on giving every musician on the planet an equal opportunity to get into
the spotlight, no matter if they are a garage band or a stadium rock star. Good musicians
need good representation, and we are here to do the job.

3.	VISION

Our vision is to revolutionize the way musicians are presented and booked as well as to
open the world of live music to anyone who wants to participate in it by decentralizing
discovery and booking processes with the use of the blockchain technology.

4.	PROBLEM

Music can be roughly divided into two parts: recorded and live music. While the recorded
part has become a showcase for the digital economy with Apple’s iTunes and streaming
services, such as Spotify and Pandora, the live music market has stayed the same for
decades if not from the very beginning. Viberate is going to change that – just like Uber
changed taxis, Airbnb changed room renting and Netflix changed TV.
The live music industry is heavily centralized and controlled by a few major talent agencies,
who look after professional musicians. Their agents sell performances of their clients to
event organizers. Having an agent is a crucial component of every professional musician’s
career, and his role as a salesperson is to sell as many good gigs as possible while making
sure that the musician gets paid.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

Such a high level of centralization generates profits only for a small group of people,
while the majority of others, involved in the live music industry, are left struggling. Small,
independent music enterprises such as underground clubs, labels and local event
organizers are bullied out of the business by big, often even corrupt, corporations on
a daily basis. This represents a dooming effect on the cultural diversity of mankind. The
preservation of independent creative engagements is a crucial driving force for maintaining
our creative spirits that define us as people.
The live music market’s demand side is represented by the event organizers while the
supply side is represented by musicians.

4.1.
SUPPLY SIDE:
MUSICIANS

4.2.
DEMAND SIDE:
EVENT ORGANIZERS

Musicians need agents in order to land enough gigs to make a living, and most of the
musicians don’t stand a chance of getting spotted. Only a fraction of a percent of all the
world’s musicians have proper representation and are lucky enough to have music as their
primary source of income. The rest are left on their own, struggling with exposure in a
heavily saturated market, dealing with marketing, sales, networking, legal, taxation and debt
collection issues instead of focusing on the creative part of the music business. Many
times those artists don’t work with contracts, are often not compensated for their work, or
don’t have the option of working legally at all (ex. cash payments, tax evasion).
Absence of a powerful and honest intermediary often means trouble for the artist in any
of the aforementioned fields. There is a clear need for an entity that would effectively and
safely represent all those who don’t have a privilege of an agent. Blockchain technology
offers the best tools for this task.
On the demand side, we have the event organizers. They need to be on top of trends in live
music and are constantly on the hunt for interesting musicians to fill the lineup. A good
event organizer in a busy city can organize up to three or four events weekly with several
musicians on the lineup. Such frequency soon leads to the organizer not knowing who to
book next. An event organizer’s product is a ticket, and their primary goal is to sell as many
tickets as possible. To do this they need a good program and a good ticket sales channel.
Also, when booking musicians that don’t have an agent or a company representing them,
organizers might have a problem with issuing payments unless they agree to pay in cash,
which is often illegal from a tax perspective. Dealing with low profile musicians can also
result in problems like no-shows, poor performance and other issues related to a poorly
organized booking process and lack of clear and thorough contracts.
There have been numerous blockchain-based solutions for recorded music, but no one has
focused on the live segment. Until now.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

Our end game is to disrupt the music
industry as we know it by becoming the
biggest global talent marketplace.

5.	VIBERATE

Viberate is a platform that joins the entire live music ecosystem under one roof. Currently it
acts as IMDB for live music, where profiles are ranked according to their online popularity. It
is built and curated by the Viberate user community. Our end game is to disrupt the music
industry as we know it – by becoming the biggest global talent marketplace.
Viberate’s database, community, holistic approach and marketplace features are the four
elements that make its service unique and revolutionary.

5.1.
THE BIGGEST CURATED
LIVE MUSIC DATABASE
IN THE WORLD

The foundations of our extensive musician database go all the way back to our pilot project,
a simple ranking service for DJs. We started off as a directory of no more than a couple
of thousand DJs, but soon grew into a massive database of over 50,000 musicians. Over
the years we’ve expanded to all music genres and upgraded our database to 120,000
musicians, 40,000 music venues and 60,000 events.
Since anyone can contribute towards our growth, the database is growing on a daily basis,
and at that rate, we plan to gradually grow towards millions of entities from all around the
world.

The profiles are updated daily from a variety of social media and streaming channels,
ticketing services and online artist calendars.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

The profiles feature:
•	
official social media links
•	
user ratings
•	
daily updated stats from all major social media and streaming channels,
	
including fan growth, user engagement and fan geo distribution
•	
recent content (audio, video, photos)
•	
gig dates with ticket links
•	
contact info
Where applicable, the profiles feature contact forms, where visitors can contact agents,
managers or artists directly with business inquiries.

5.2.
A DECENTRALIZED
COMMUNITY-BASED
SERVICE, FUELED BY
THE VIBERATE
TOKEN (VIB)

Viberate has always been decentralized in its core. The database has always been open to
the public, so anyone could add new artists. We managed to build the database we have
today with the help of over 50,000 contributors and we will always keep it open for anyone
to take part in maintaining its relevance.
Such a level of decentralization allows Viberate to be on top of rapidly moving trends in the
music industry. Using the blockchain technology to crowdsource the curating process of
the information in musician, venue and event profiles is the only reasonable and rational
way to keep the database up to date and relevant.

COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTES TO VIBERATE

VIBERATE GROWS

COMMUNITY GETS REWARDED

Those 50,000 Viberate contributors didn’t get anything in return for their contributions.
Now the blockchain technology allows us to reward them for their work with Viberate
tokens (VIBs) from our bounty allocation.
The VIB represents the atomic unit of our crowdsourced concept, and the service’s growth
and relevance depends on it.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

The VIB will become a go-to currency for the music industry as a whole. Besides using the
tokens on the Viberate platform, there will also be an array of smart contracts connected
with the music industry where VIBs will be used as a core currency (see chapters 5.4.2 and
5.4.3 for more details).

5.2.1.
REWARDED
ACTIONS

5.2.2.
SOURCING
DYNAMICS

5.2.3.
REWARDING
DYNAMICS

5.3.
THE ENTIRE
MUSIC ECOSYSTEM
IN ONE PLACE

Contributors are rewarded for the following actions:
•	
registering to the service (welcome award)
•	
referring friends
•	
promoting the service
•	
adding new profiles into the database
	
(points credited when the profile is verified by the editorial team)
•	
curating existing profiles
	
(points credited when the suggested change is accepted by the editorial team)
•	
writing editorial content
•	
	
•	
•	
	
•	
	
	
	
•	
•	
	
•	
	
	
•	
	
	

Initially, the bounty pool will be sourced upon ICO
with 5% of all issued tokens (10,000,000 VIB).
For the first 2,000 days, we will distribute 5,000 tokens daily among contributors.
Additionally, the pool will later be funded by different streams, but never from issuing 	
new tokens.
Such dynamics allow for the uninterrupted supply of new tokens into the bounty fund
and at the same time positively influences the trading volume and liquidity of the VIB
on exchanges.
Each rewarded action will be assigned a fixed amount of points.
At the end of each 24-hour period, the accrued points will be exchanged into
VIBs at the daily exchange rate.
The exchange rate will be calculated according to the number of rewarded actions
in the respective period with a formula. The total daily VIB budget will be divided
by the number of rewarded actions for that day.
After the exchange, VIB tokens will be credited to each user’s wallet and the user will
be able to redeem them for concert tickets and merchandize or exchange them for
other cryptocurrencies in exchanges that will list the VIB.

We see the music ecosystem as a network of:
•	musicians
•	
music venues
•	
event organizers and events
•	
booking agencies

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

EVENT ORGANIZER

EVENTS

MUSICIANS/
PERFORMER

BOOKING
AGENCIES

VENUES

Viberate features their profiles and offers tools for all of them. Being a part of this online
ecosystem allows these entities to easily expose either to the general public or to a targeted
audience. Profiles are also equipped with contact information that enables users to engage
among themselves and thus pursue different business opportunities, which makes Viberate
a perfect networking tool and business platform.
To make exploring through the ecosystem easier and more efficient, profiles are listed
in customizable charts. Visitors can use genre, country or social media filters to find the
perfect match – whether it is a musician for a Friday night’s private party, a local club, or a
festival they are interested in.
Profiles are ranked according to their social media popularity. Social media and streaming
site analytics are processed by our own powerful analytics engine, capable of analyzing
billions of data points daily. It taps into public and private APIs of analyzed channels, and
processes and saves the data about online fan following and engagement for each of the
profiles. Data is then compared with the previous period and shown in simple graphs, so
users can easily determine who’s on the rise and who’s fading away.
This way Viberate offers a complete and thorough overview of the whole live music
industry and enables the following of the trends when they happen.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

5.4.
THE FIRST EVER
BLOCKCHAIN-BASED
LIVE MUSIC
MARKETPLACE

With the database and communication channels in place, our platform enables the
implementation of a live music marketplace on both, B2B (musician-event organizers) as
well on B2C (ticketing, crowdfunding live performances) levels.

EVENT ORGANIZER

MUSICIAN

Rate colaboration

Discovery

Exposure

Booking

Booking

Service fee

5.4.1.
MATCHING
MUSICIANS WITH
EVENT ORGANIZERS

Event organizers will be able to book musicians directly through our service, just like
tourists book accommodation on Airbnb. They will pick them from the massive selection of
profiles using our social media metrics. After the gig is over, the event organizer will review
the musician and vice versa.
Listing both, demand and supply, of the live music market, Viberate represents a great
sales channel for already-established acts, but more importantly – a priceless tool and
an excellent sales showcase for millions of unrepresented (long-tail) musicians from all
around the world. It’s a matchmaking platform that digitizes the job that talent booking
agencies have done for over a hundred years with one more important difference – any
musician can join, regardless of genre, country, fame level or gig history.
We will utilize the advantage of smart contracts during the negotiation process. Crucial
information about the booking will be negotiated and then written into the smart contract:
•	
date and time of performance
•	
venue and event organizer details
•	
duration of performance
•	
artist fee
•	
technical and hospitality requirements

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

It’s a matchmaking platform that digitizes
the job that talent booking agencies have
done for over a hundred years with one
more important difference – any musician
can join, regardless of genre, country,
fame level or gig history.

Viberate will use smart contracts, sourcing the above mentioned variables directly from
the artist booking backend, where every artist will set their own booking requirements and
preferences. Once agreed, the terms will be written into the smart contract, which will then
be sealed with a timestamp and put onto the blockchain. Any additions or alterations will
result in voiding the old contract and replacing it with a new one, provided both parties
confirm the alteration on the blockchain.
When it comes to payments, one of the biggest advantages of using the blockchain
technology in the artist booking process is the ability to offer an escrow. It’s the safest way
for both parties when dealing with artist bookings. However, fiat currencies escrow in most
countries requires a set of licenses from centralized authorities such as a central bank
or the Ministry of Treasury and Finance. Using a cryptocurrency with a combination of a
smart contract solves this issue and allows for effective and safe escrow.
Bookings on Viberate will be made using Ether (ETH) and Viberate tokens (VIBs) along with
following these steps:
•	
Upon digitally signing the contract, the event organizer (buyer) pays the agreed
	
number of ETH or VIB plus a service fee to a specially created wallet that holds
	
the coins until the event is fully executed.
•	
The event organizer has 24 hours to file a complaint in case the artist has breached 	
	
the contract in any way (no-show, cutting the performance short for an unexplained 	
	
reason, excessive behavior, etc.) and after that period ends, the artist fee is released 	
	
to the artist’s wallet.
•	
In case of a breach, a dispute is triggered, which is handled by a trained tribunal 	
	
of music business experts who give the verdict based on provided evidence (photos, 	
	
exchanged e-mails, etc.). The members then vote to decide whether to return the 	
	
withheld fee to the organizer or clear the payment into the artist’s wallet.
When the booking is fully executed and the event is over, both parties will review each other
and the reviews will be published on their profiles.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

5.4.2.
TICKETING

Our massive database of events will enable fans to easily find and buy tickets to see their
favorite performer live. Entity profiles already include the information about show dates, which
link to an outside ticket vendor. But soon Viberate will introduce its own ticketing system:
•	
The ticketing system will be accessed through a DApp. Musicians or venue owners
	
will be able to create ticketed events without any intermediary (such as Ticketmaster)
	
on a decentralized system.
•	
Tickets will be sold only when both musician and venue owner confirm the event.
	
With that, the sales will start and the tickets will be ported to the Ethereum
	
network via VIBBridge.
•	
From that point, any user from anywhere in the world will be able to buy the tickets 	
	
with Ether or VIB and hold them in their Ethereum wallet. Tickets will be 		
	
cryptographically secured and linked directly to the user’s public key and verifiable 	
	
over the public blockchain. Every generated ticket will be connected to a buyer’s 	
	
Viberate account. With this, we will disable any possible ticket counterfeiting or fraud.
•	
Funds will be held in escrow on the smart contract until the event is successfully 	
	completed.
•	
At the door the user will show the ticket in a form of a QR code to the venue’s staff, 	
	
who will scan the code, mark it as used and let the user into the venue.

5.4.3.
DTX – DECENTRALIZED
TICKET EXCHANGE

Ticket buyers will have a chance to change the ticket owner. This way we will introduce
a secondary ticket marketplace, so that people, who won’t be able to attend the event for
which they purchased their ticket, will be able to sell the ticket to other Viberate users via
DTX and charge the price in ETH or VIB.
It happens often that a popular band comes to town and the tickets quickly sell out. Fans
can still find a reseller or an e-Bay ad to purchase the ticket for multiples of the actual price.
With DTX fans will be able find peers who cannot go to the event but have bought the
ticket. Fans will be able to set the maximum price they are willing to pay for the ticket or
buy the ticket right away from an existing member who is selling it. The system will be
decentralized, taking place on the Ethereum network.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

a) Technical details
EVENT ORGANIZER

DTX

Sells tickets

VIBBridge

Buys tickets

Creates tickets/events

Pushes tickets to DTX,
via VIBBridge

Redeems tickets

DTX is a p2p ticket exchange running on the Ethereum blockchain for ticket sellers, users and
event organizers. Because trust is paramount, we will integrate our Viberate platform directly
into the DTX. Viberate will be used for a secure bridge between physical tickets and their
representations on the Ethereum blockchain. The only way to issue tickets for an event is to be
a member on the platform and a verified ticket reseller or event organizer.
While DTX will be easily integrated into any existing wallet, service or exchange, we will also create
a single page application where users will be able to use all of the features of the application
while browsing with an Ethereum integrated browser (Mist, Parity, Chrome+metamask, Status,
etc.).
Each ticket group will be simulated as an ERC20 token, which means that users will be able to
send and receive them on all ERC20 compliant wallets. The protocol will be easily integrated to
exchanges, Ethereum ATMs and other solutions currently on the market, so anyone will be able
to transfer tickets with whichever wallet or software they want. This will also give an opportunity
to BTC ATM operators to offer tickets on their ATMs.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

The app will have no charts, order books or trades. Users will have a simple yet advanced
searching mechanism where they will be able to filter and sort artists, events and venues, as
well as get tickets tailored to their preference, all in a truly trustless ticketing system manner.
With the public and private key, cryptography users will be 100% certain that the ticket bought
is actually theirs, and that no one can steal the ticket while they have full control of their private
key. Because only the owner has its corresponding private key, only he or she can sign the
transaction to redeem the ticket or send it to someone else.
Thanks to the blockchain integration, they can also be certain that the ticket was not
counterfeited or sold to two different people.
Example of user’s wallet:
 
<Ethereum public key> <- User’s public key that holds the tickets
	
•	 Event 1
	
•	 Event 2 (Data: Vip)
	
•	 Event 3 (5 tickets) (Data: Welcome drink for each ticket)
The DTX platform will also be used for ticket auctions. Users will be able to set the minimum
price in VIBs that they want to get, and others will be able to bid while the auction is running. This
will fill the blank for the upper tier tickets for which fans are willing to pay a little bit extra.
 
With the help of Oraclize, we will feed the data to the contract and limit the queries to the event
start. After that, the sales will be final to provide users with easy access to tickets without
technical difficulties.

b) VIBBridge
USER 1
has ticket

1.
Creates a sell query at
10 VIB for the ticket

2.
DTX shows the trade publicly,
and locks the ticket

USER 2
has VIB

DTX

3.
User 2 allows DTX to send VIB
to User 1 for a ticket

4.
DTX creates the trade in one transaction,
now User 1 has 10 VIB and User 2 has the ticket

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

VIBBridge is a solution running on our servers that will be responsible for two main functionalities:
1.	
	
	
	
2.	
	
	

5.4.4.
CROWDFUNDING
LIVE PERFORMANCES

A centralized trusted entity that creates entities (tickets) in DTX from the Viberate 	
platform and guarantees that the tickets are actually reserved for users that hold them – 	
In the future we will implement a system that will be able to prove our ticket holdings for 	
the members.
A bridge between events on the blockchain and social media – We would like to push 	
different interesting events automatically to our social media channels (like auctions for 	
special tickets).

We know the hassle of living in a small city or a place where there are no large concerts. Until
now there was only one option – get some friends together and take a road trip to a venue far
away, and after the event go back home. Now we’re offering a decentralized alternative.
Fans will have the option to crowdfund the fee of a certain performer they want to see play.
A campaign will be open for a defined period of time, and anyone will have a chance to contribute
towards the targeted fee.
This way we will utilize the advantages of the decentralized economy to bring musicians
to markets that are otherwise overlooked. The power of crowdfunding has proven to move
boundaries, and we believe that we can use it to revolutionize the way music events are being
planned and executed.
The whole process will run as follows:
•	
Users will interact with smart contracts through the DAPP, a single page application that
	
will be connected to Viberate’s database and smart contracts.
•	
They will create new crowdfunding campaigns or join existing ones.
•	
Upon creation, they will send some VIB or ETH to the contract from their wallet and set 	
	
up 	 all the necessary data for the crowdfunding campaign (location, musician, date, etc.).
•	
When the event will be created, the specially-created VIBPulse app will automatically 	
	
push the newly created campaign to all social media so other users will be able to see it 	
	
and contribute.
•	
When the crowdfunding goal is successfully completed, the chosen musician and the 	
	
venue will get the message via the Viberate platform that they may claim and execute 	
	
the	 event, using the budget acquired via the crowdfunding campaign.
•	
If the funding goal is not met, and the deadline has passed, all the contributors will get 	
	
their funds back.
•	
When the event is scheduled, all the funds get converted into tickets that users can claim 	
	
with their accounts on the Viberate platform.
•	
After the event is finished, the musician can claim their portion of the acquired funds into 	
	
their wallet.
This solution will be fully integrated into Viberate and the DTX and developed on the Ethereum
blockchain. This introduces the trustless model of crowdfunding on the Ethereum platform
(ICO) into the music industry.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

6.	 BUSINESS MODELS

The platform allows for the implementation of different business models in a B2B as well
as in a B2C segment.
On a B2B segment, Viberate can act as a marketplace, targeted advertising platform,
networking tool and a data analytics service. On a B2C segment, we will tap into the
ticketing business.

6.1.
BOOKING
COMMISSION

The music industry has worked using booking (service) fees from the very beginning.
Agents that represent artists usually take a 10 to 20% booking commission on the artist’s
net fee. This kind of work system is proven and well accepted by the stakeholders, so we
intend to keep it, but due to benefits of using an automated blockchain-based platform,
thus having lower overhead costs, we can afford to charge the fee on the lower price range.
The booking fee will be distributed towards covering the operational costs of the service
and funding bounty budgets.

6.2.
ADVERTISING
REVENUE

6.3.
ACCESS TO PREMIUM
INDUSTRY CONTACTS

6.4.
TICKETING

6.5.
3RD PARTY
INTEGRATIONS

Listed artists will have an option to expose their profiles in different charts (e.g. a rock band
in Germany is exposed on Germany’s top chart for rock bands).
Exposure will be bought with VIB or ETH using smart contracts, where terms such as the
duration and price will be defined. Once paid, the smart contract will trigger the exposure of
the artist’s profile on the agreed position and for the agreed period of time.
The price in VIB and ETH will be set automatically, based on the current demand for the
respective position.
Certain musician profiles include a direct contact option to the artist’s agent, manager or
the artist himself. In order to contact those entities, a user needs to pay a fee in ETH or VIB.
Aside from this feature being a revenue source, the purpose of charging for access to
premium contacts is to prevent spam.
Listing hundreds of thousands of events, listed on profiles of performing artists, Viberate
has the unique opportunity to tap into this multi-billion market. Paper tickets are giving
way to electronic ones, and we want to go a step further by implementing a blockchainbased ticketing service, where we will charge a commission on every ticket sold through
our system.
Viberate’s analytical content provides insightful information for several different outlets,
such as music media, streaming services, larger booking agencies and other services that
could benefit from extensive music analytics. We will charge a monthly cost per integrated
profile or a monthly lump sum to use the whole database. 3rd party integrations will also be
made available via our API, where we will charge for API calls.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

On a B2B segment, Viberate can act as
a marketplace, targeted advertising
platform, networking tool and a data
analytics service. On a B2C segment, we
will tap into the ticketing business.

7.	MARKET
7.1.
SIZE

•	
According to a research conducted by CISAC and UNESCO, the music industry has 	
	an annual turnover of $250 billion USD.
•	
Live performances take up to one third of that amount.
•	
There are around 50 million music events taking place globally each year.
•	
While represented artists account for a small fraction of a percent, millions of 	
	
smaller artists are unrepresented. Their fees range from less than $100
	
all the way to a couple thousand USD.
•	
The live music sector is growing rapidly due to a technological development, 		
	
which allows people to engage in music easier than ever (it only takes a Mac 		
	
and a YouTube tutorial to become a DJ).
An estimation, based on the above numbers, predicts the addressable market of $35B per
year in unrepresented artist fees.

7.2.
COMPETITION

Currently, our only real competition exists outside the blockchain ecosystem. Solutions
for the music industry that are using the blockchain technology, such as Creativechain,
Soundchain and Musicoin focus only on royalty collection and not on live music.
As a talent marketplace, Viberate mostly has competitors in a form of traditional booking
agencies such as William Morris Endeavour, Creative Artists Agency, United Talent Agency
and Paradigm just to name a few of the biggest players. However, Viberate’s main target
market isn’t their clients. We aim to attract musicians with smaller profiles, who are
unrepresented.
Furthermore, instead of competing with major agencies by poaching artists from their
rosters, we want to work with them by offering them a sales channel to generate more
gig leads for their musicians, much like Booking.com offers a great sales channel to hotels,
instead of working against them.

7.3.
GO TO MARKET STRATEGY
7.3.1.
TRADITIONAL
ONLINE ADVERTISING

Although Viberate is already publicly accessible, we plan to launch campaigns,
accompanying different milestones in the project’s roadmap. Campaigns will be targeted
towards database growth as well as to lead generation (e.g. bookings, ad buy).	
•	
•	
•	

Social media: Facebook and Twitter
SEM: Google AdWords search and network campaigns
Network ads: Httpool Ad Network

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

7.3.2.
EVENT
PRESENCE

As a service, targeted towards a B2B sector, we need to maintain our appearance at notable
music events such as:
•	festivals
•	
club events
•	concerts
•	
music conferences
We can plug into bigger music events with a curated stage, sponsor the backstage and the
artist green room.
At conferences we have already successfully secured panel features, provided insights
for keynote speakers, and in the future we plan to have representation with stands and
demo booths on major music conferences globally.

7.3.3.
CELEBRITY
MARKETING

Influencer marketing turned out to be a successful strategy for numerous projects. That’s
why we are working with a German based agency Passiontainment to look for endorsement
partnerships with celebrities, especially well known musicians.
Endorsements include:
•	
the right to associate a musician’s brand name with Viberate
•	
social media posts
•	
public statements
•	
press releases
Celebrities will be compensated directly with VIBs.

7.3.4.
PRESS

Apart from the existent media partnership with the world’s biggest dance culture magazine,
Mixmag, we will periodically release interesting industry insights, using the analytics data
Viberate offers through its powerful social media analytics engine. Such information is
exclusive and cannot be acquired easily without some kind of analytics software, so it’s a
precious piece of information for journalists.
We already tested the concept and got significant media attention.
The team employs marketing and PR executives with years of experience in corporate and
celebrity marketing (see chapter Team), so most promotional activities will be planned and
executed in-house.
A detailed media plan along with PR activities will be shared among VIB holders.

7.3.5.
PUBLIC
RECOGNITION

Viberate has been recognized by the European Commission’s Music Moves Europe
initiative as one of eight European startups that will disrupt the global music industry:
https://ec.europa.eu/programmes/creative-europe/actions/music-moves-europe
The EU government gave the company a chance to present at the Commission’s pavilion at
one of the world’s largest music conferences, MIDEM in Cannes.
Viberate also has the full support of the Ministry of Economic Development and
Technology of the Republic of Slovenia, with a signed endorsement letter by the Minister,
Zdravko Pocivalsek.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

8.	ROADMAP

Testing the market - Topdeejays.com
We tested the market with a simple DJ ranking
service named Topdeejays.com.
With the help of our users, we’ve rapidly grown
from a directory of a couple of thousands DJs
to a massive database of more than 50.000
musicians.

APRIL 2015

MARCH 2013
Going all in - Viberate
After the success of Topdeejays.com,
we decided to actively pursue the idea of
digitalizing the live music industry.
We expanded the team, opened a designated
Viberate office and developed a detailed
project plan. To enable project monetization,
we started planning the implementation of
different business models.

First round of funding - $560,000
In April 2016, we received our first round of
funding from several domestic investors.

APRIL 2016
Viberate 1.0 launch - Analytical
content
We launched the first version of our service on
the biggest electronic music conference in the
world - the Amsterdam Dance Event.

OCTOBER 2016

The service, that contained detailed analytical
content for over 50.000 musicians, was
subscription based.

Second round of funding - $440,000
In February 2017, we received our second
round of funding from an angel investor.

APRIL 2017

Viberate 2.0 launch - expanding to all
music genres
With version 2.0 we expanded to all music
genres. We now have a database of over
120.000 musician profiles, containing all
relevant information, including relevant
analytical content, latest media feed and
booking informaton.

JULY 2017

FEBRUARY 2017

Welcoming the team of blockchain
experts
To help us integrate the blockchain technology
into our service, we hired a team of experts
with rich domain knowledge and years of
experience in the field of cryptocurrencies and
blockchain technology.

JUNE 2017
ICO campaign launch
To prepare our service for the ICO, we
launched the ICO campain, including the
publication of a designated ICO website with
all the relevant info for the potential ICO
participants.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

Launch of the Venue and Event
profiles
Pursuing our vision to joun the entire live
music ecosystem in one place, we upgraded
our entity database with the profiles of 40.000
music venues and 60.000 events.
All our profiles are furnished with relevant
and up-to-date information, that makes the
discovery and decision-making process
simple, fast and efficient.

AUGUST 2017

The ICO

SEPTEMBER 2017

As a first step in implementing the blockchain
technology into our service and to assure the
next round of financing, we’ll be launching a
Viberate ICO in September 2017.

Launch of the Booking Agency profiles
To alleviate the promotion of musicians,
represented by booking agencies, we’ll be
launching designated booking agency profiles,
featuring rosters of represented musicians.

Q4 2017

Launch of Event Organizer profiles

Q1 2018

Integration of the ticket sales
platform
By Q3 2018, we’ll have affiliate deals in place
with all major ticket vendors, to provide our
users with the option to purchase event
tickets directly off the site.
In later stages, we’re planning to develop our
own internal ticket sales system.

Q4 2018

Additionally, we’ll be launching event organizer
profiles, that will enable the event organizers
to showcase their work, promote their events
and directly engage with other entities.

Q3 2018

Business and booking platform launch
We’ll upgrade our communication system
with comprehensive business and booking
tools, that will enable our entities to take full
advantage of a simple digitalized process
of booking musicians and pursuing other
business opportunities.

Extended blockchain features
integration
We’ll gradually introduce advanced blockchain
features, such as smart contracts and DAOs,
that will be used in different stages of the
musician booking process.
Only then we’ll achieve our mission to fully
digitalize and decentralize the live music
industry.

Q4 2018 & Q1 2019

Q1 2019

Global marketing, PR and sales
campaign
With the aim of spreading the awareness
about our service, we’ll be performing different
marketing, PR and sales activities on a global
scale.
We’ll commission marketing experts to help us
maximize the effectiveness of our endeavours.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

9.	TEAM

The team behind the project is a combination of experienced managers, event organizers,
developers and cryptocurrency experts.
The founders gained their music domain knowledge over 20 years of working in the music
industry, managing artists, touring, organizing events and running a successful record
label. They created some of the biggest event brands in their region, including a beach
festival Disconautica, attracting up to 80 thousand visitors each year.
They discovered the pains of the industry the hard way, and now they are offering solutions
to their industry peers with Viberate.
Besides organizing their own events, they have offered event management services to big
international clients, such as Philip Morris, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Vodafone and many
others.
The crypto part of the team already owns a successful project named CreditBit.
They have been actively engaged in the crypto community for the last eight years.

9.1.
FOUNDERS

Matej Gregorčič, CEO
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/matejgregorcic/
Matej has been an entrepreneur for most of his life, starting as a teenager. He founded a
marketing agency and took it from selling ideas in a shared office space to becoming one
of the biggest event management agencies in his country. His company won numerous
awards at marketing festivals and did some pioneering work in digital marketing back when
Facebook was still considered a small website. Working with big international clients, his
team members never missed a deadline. He specializes in team leadership and strategic
planning, utilizing knowledge he gained studying mathematics and economics.
Vasja Veber, COO
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/vasjaveber/
Vasja started his first business in the mid ‘90s when he was 15 years old. Working from
his room, he built simple websites for clients. After earning a Master’s degree in marketing
from the University of Ljubljana, he joined Matej to found a music management agency.
Since then he has been managing one of the best techno DJs in the world UMEK, taking
care of his 100 gigs per year. Vasja overlooks all day-to-day business operations, related
to a superstar musician’s career, from working with booking agents all the way to travel
logistics and taxes. In over 10 years in the music business, he managed to grow an
impressive network of influencers in the music industry. Vasja is also a member of the
Washington Chapter of The Recording Academy (Grammy Awards).

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

Uroš Umek, Professional DJ, Founder, Celebrity Ambassador
Facebook fan page: https://www.facebook.com/umek.si/
Uroš is widely known just under his stage name UMEK. Any true techno fan knows his
legacy. Umek is an award-winning producer and an A-list techno DJ. He is personally
responsible for kickstarting the electronic music scene in his home country by organizing
some of Slovenia’s first ever illegal raves. Since then he has gone on to become one of the
world’s best-known techno artists, having made his name on the world stage, graduating
from the dark underground clubs of Europe’s capital cities, to the massive techno stages of
the world’s most high-profile music festivals such as Ultra, EDC and Tomorrowland. UMEK
was voted number 3 Techno DJ globally by a prominent magazine, DJ Mag.

9.2.
LEAD
DEVELOPERS

Boštjan Žakelj, CTO
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/bostjan-zakelj-b138874/
Bostjan is an experienced senior engineer with deep knowledge in Linux and Windows
(Azure) server management, PHP programming, CSS/XML coding, mobile applications,
CMS systems, mongoDB noSQL database management and network security. He has been
a lead tech force in Viberate since the very beginning and is responsible for building a social
media analytics engine, capable of analyzing billions of data points daily.
Rok Bavec, Senior Developer, Data Scientist
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/rok-bavec-ba88a610a/
Rok graduated from applied mathematics at the Faculty of Mathematics, University of
Ljubljana. He is an organized, creative and highly-focused developer with knowledge in PHP
programming, mySQL databases, noSQL databases (mongoDB) as well as experienced
in web development. He specializes in data analytics, where he developed a series of
algorithms for measuring online popularity among musicians.
Rok Babič, Senior Blockchain Developer
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/rok-babi%C4%8D-a3843852/
Rok started his tech career as a developer at a leading ERP provider in the region. As soon as
he heard of blockchain, he was hooked and spent the next years developing and maintaining
solutions on top of Bitcoin and other altcoins. He found his true passion, though, with the
release of Ethereum, where he immediately started developing decentralized applications
on top of the platform. After a few successful projects, he cofounded Spartan Solutions
d.o.o., where they aim towards becoming a leading decentralized solutions provider and
integrator in the region. After successfully executing a number of decentralized solutions,
Rok primarily focuses on promoting decentralized apps, planning the architecture of
blockchain-based solutions and consulting startups in blockchain space.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

9.3.
GENERAL
STAFF

Dr. Ina Veber, General Counsel
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ina-veber-67457a68/
Ina is a lawyer with a PhD in International Business. She specializes in international law and
intellectual property legislation with an emphasis on music-related legal matters. She was
an assistant professor at the University of Primorska in Slovenia, where she published a
number of papers in the field of internationalization.
After that she pursued a career as a legal consultant in music and startup business, offering
her services to musicians, labels and event organizers as well as a number of technological
startups. Currently she’s researching the implications of the blockchain technology on
intellectual property and how it can be used to protect involved parties and improve solving
disputes.
Kristian Gorenc, CMO
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/kristiangorenc/
Kristian got his B.Sc. in Marketing from the Faculty of Economics, University of Ljubljana.
He specializes in digital marketing and PR. In his career he worked for brands such as Nivea,
Vodafone, Axe, Beko and many others, strategically planning and executing successful
brand and sales campaigns regionally and nationally. He is also a skilled PR professional
for musicians, taking care of social media presence, advertising and press relations for a
superstar musician and his label.

9.4.
ADVISORS

Dr. Mark Pleško, Nuclear Physicist, Angel Investor
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/markplesko/
A prodigy nuclear physicist (co-discovery of matter turning into antimatter), Mark was the
first one to see potential in the team and the project’s vision. Enough to get on board and
back them early. Mark is more than just an angel investor; he is actively involved in the
company’s strategic planning as well as day-to-day operation.
He is also the main founder and CEO of the high tech company Cosylab that is the world
leader in large nuclear accelerator control systems, with yearly profit margins exceeding
30-40%. Among Cosylab’s customers are the world’s largest national laboratories and
international projects, such as CERN, the international fusion project ITER, SLAC at Stanford
University, KEK in Japan and several novel cancer treatment centers worldwide which use
protons and Carbon ion accelerators to kill cancer tumors with submillimeter precision.
Dejan Roljić, ABC Acceleration Business City
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/dejan-roljic-50a90912/
Founder of ABC Accelerator, Slovenia’s first and biggest accelerator with offices in Ljubljana,
Munich and San Jose, Dejan is a serial entrepreneur, who founded his first company when
he was 16 and managed to do two exits by the time he was 26. Dejan played a crucial role
when Viberate was raising a seed round of financing and is a key part of the project when it
comes to investor relations.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

Peter M. Moricz, Blockchain Business Development
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/petermmoricz/
Peter successfully navigated through some of the most severe financial crises of our time
and developed a great expertise and reputation for effectively managing risk. His derivatives
product knowledge is diverse, having spent over 20 years trading US and European Fixed
Income, FX, equity indexes, crude oil and gold futures. Recently Peter’s career has focused
on risk and compliance issues. Between 2014 and 2016 he was Vice President at JP
Morgan Private Bank in London, where he was responsible for compliance with all US,
UK and EU regulatory requirements, leading sales and execution supervision in line with
industry standards. He also worked with Regtech, Fintech companies and Co-Founded a
Trade Finance Blockchain company called ChainX.
Collin LaHay, Blockchain Expert, Founder @ Gambit
Linkedin: https://www.linkedin.com/in/collinlahay/
Collin earned his B.Sc. in Business Administration with a Marketing option from the
University of Wisconsin, River Falls. After a twelve-year career in search engine optimization
and digital advertising, he moved his expertise over to finance and started trading the
cryptocurrency markets in early 2013. Since then, Collin has been trading the inefficiencies
of the crypto markets full-time, as well as being a leading escrow trust-agent on Bitrated and
one of the largest super-affiliates for the flagship crypto exchanges. Collin has developed
and managed his own blockchain project, GambitCrypto, since 2015 and leads a private
trading group, who develop their own proprietary trading algorithms, bots and tools.
Charlie Shrem, Blockchain Expert, Co-Founder @ Bitcoin Foundation
Personal website: http://charlieshrem.com/
Charlie Shrem is an American entrepreneur and bitcoin advocate. He co-founded a startup
company, BitInstant, and is a founding member of the Bitcoin Foundation, formerly serving
as Vice Chairman. By 2013 BitInstant was processing approximately 30% of all bitcoin
transactions. Shrem is featured in “The Rise and Rise of Bitcoin,” a documentary directed
by Nicholas Mross that explores the origins and development of bitcoin. It premiered at the
2014 Tribeca Film Festival. He is also featured in the 2016 documentary film, “Banking on
Bitcoin,” discussing how bitcoin technology will shape lives and in the 2015 book, “Digital
Gold,” by Nathaniel Popper, which covers the rise of bitcoin.
As a former owner of a nightclub that accepted Bitcoin, Charlie is a priceless advisor to
the Viberate team – because of his deep knowledge of the blockchain as well as running a
music venture.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

Prof. Dr. Jure Leskovec, Professor @ Stanford University, Pinterest
Stanford personal page: https://cs.stanford.edu/people/jure/
Jure Leskovec is an Associate Professor of Computer Science at Stanford University. His
research focuses on mining and modeling large social and information networks, their
evolution and diffusion of information, and influence over them. After selling his startup,
Kosei, to Pinterest, he took a position of Chief Scientist, leading Pinterest labs. As one of the
world’s leading big data experts and researchers, Professor Leskovec is advising Viberate’s
development team on data mining and the service’s social media analytics engine.
Ram Santhosh Kumar Budime, CEO @ Bitins.net
LinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/ram-santhosh-kumar-budime-494133149/
Ram’s entrepreneurial activities are focused in the areas of digital currencies like Bitcoin,
Blockchain and Fintech with a keen eye for emerging technologies trends and the business
instincts to position companies in the critical path. In 2016, while working as Head of
Business Development at GreCom company, he Co-founded BitIns and serves as CEO.
BitIns mission is to provide people and businesses with easy access to digital money.
Ram is also an active supporter of non-profit organisations in India and he likes physical
fitness. In Viberate’s team Ram is in charge of getting the VIB on crypto exchanges as well
as offering contributors fast and reliable fiat to ETH exchange service.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

Viberate already received an angel
investment, therefore token buyers
are contributing to a project that
already went through the scrutiny
of due diligence made by VCs and
angel investors.

10.	VIB TOKEN CROWD SALE
10.1.
VIB TOKEN

10.2.
ELIGIBILITY

10.2.1.
EARLY FUNDING
AND CURRENT
OWNERSHIP

Viberate token is fully ERC20 compliant and will be available for purchase with ETH.
Symbol: VIB
Base token price upon the launch of the crowdsale will be set to $0.1.
ETH/USD exchange rate will be locked based on September 5 market exchange rate and
will be valid for the entire time of the crowd sale.
Unlike many other projects using just an idea to raise funds via token crowd sales or initial
coin offerings, without an actual product or at least a proof of concept, Viberate is up and
running. Viberate already has a user base, established business partnerships and media
coverage.
The project was bootstrapped with $400,000 of the founders’ own savings. The funds were
used to produce an MVP and to build the initial database of musicians.
This gave the team a solid foundation to raise an angel round of $1,000,000 from a
Slovenian ABC Accelerator and two angel investors. The funds were spent to launch the
platform with profiles of 120,000 musicians and start working on profiles for music venues
(for more information about past progress, refer to the chapter Roadmap).
Viberate already received an angel investment, therefore token buyers are contributing to
a project that already went through the scrutiny of due diligence made by VCs and angel
investors.
Contributors contribute voluntarily and their participation cannot in any way be defined
or treated as an equity investment into the company that owns the project and IP on the
address www.viberate.com. Contributors agree with Terms of Service published on www.
viberate.io/TOS
The ownership of the token does not include the right to:
•	
ownership of the company
•	
ownership of the service’s IP
•	
profits of the service
•	
participate in decision making, unless options are put up on voting to token holders
The founding team still owns the majority stake in the project (83.33%) and has a majority
vote, thus complete control over strategy as well as day-to-day decision making.

10.2.2.
INTELLECTUAL
PROPERTY

The company owns all intellectual property of the service, which includes:
•	
brand name and domain
•	
source code of the website
•	
ranking algorithm
•	
database of profiles
Contributors / token owners do not get any ownership of the company’s intellectual
property.

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

10.2.3.
WHY FUNDING
WITH THE TOKEN
CROWDSALE

10.3.
TOKEN SALE
DETAILS

We decided to fund further development of the service with a token crowdsale, because of
two main reasons:
•	
Viberate will become completely decentralized in terms of database growth and
	
curation, and members of the community need to benefit financially from their work 	
	
by contributing in terms of content and sales.
•	
Technical and business development still needs to stay centralized and focused on 	
	
developing new features and bringing in revenues, which requires funding.

Beginning of ICO: 5th of September 2017
(block number will be announced one week before)
We will create a smart contract that will handle the whole ICO process automatically. Main
features of the smart contract will be:

10.3.1.
MINIMUM
GOAL

The smart contract will have a security measure for the contributors. If the minimum goal
is not reached, we will not have access to the funds, and participating contributors will get
a full refund. This measure protects the contributors from fraud and eliminates the need
for an escrow.

10.3.2.
MAXIMUM
DEVELOPMENT
CAP AND MAXIMUM
TOTAL CAP

We are against uncapped ICOs, because we believe the company should raise the amount
of money it needs to accomplish the goals from the roadmap. Furthermore, uncapped
ICOs turned out to be harmful for the tokenized economy, often driven by greed and taken
advantage of by the hype.
We strive to deliver our features as comprehensive as possible, which is why we made
product and technical development a priority of our operations. This decision is strongly
reflected in our financial strategy that is divided into two phases.
•	
The development cap defines the maximum amount of funds, needed to accomplish
	
the development goals, defined in our roadmap. A portion of the funds is also reserved
	
for the initial marketing campaign on a smaller scale.
•	
The marketing cap is intended to cover the cost of marketing, namely direct sales, and
	
the launch of a global PR and advertising campaign. With the service firmly in place,
	
our main goal in the second phase is to spread the word about Viberate all over the 	
	world.

ICO start

Minimum goal: $1M

Production phase of ICO

$6M

Maximum goal: $12M

Marketing phase of ICO

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

In case the ICO does not reach the envisioned amount, none of the development or
marketing activities will be completely omitted, but the dynamics of their execution might
change. We’ll rely on operating profits to fuel growth. If needed, our operations will only be
scaled down to extend the runway far enough to achieve all development and marketing
goals we’ve set.
Unsold tokens will be transferred into the marketing budget. Tokens will be locked into a
smart contract and accessible after one year, when the global marketing campaign will
begin. The lockdown is to prove the contributors we believe in the value of the Viberate
tokens (VIB) and as reassurance that the tokens won’t be sold immediately and will be spent
only for the marketing and sales activities.

10.3.3.
AUTOMATIC
TOKEN ISSUANCE

The ICO contract will be directly linked to the Token contract so that instant issuance of
tokens will be possible. Users will be able to see in real time how many tokens they will get
in return to their contribution and will not need to wait for an extended period of time to get
them (sending will be enabled immediately after ICO ends).	

10.3.4.
DISTRIBUTION
OF ISSUED
TOKENS

•	
Total number of generated VIBs: 200,000,000
•	
60% of tokens will be sold in the ICO to secure funds for further product development,
	
operations and international expansion
•	
16% of tokens will be held by project founders and the rest of the team that helped to
	
bring the project to life with their hard work and dedication
•	
4% of tokens will be given to early stage angel investors, true believers,
	
who showed a lot of trust and provided rocket fuel for our idea
•	
5% of tokens is intended for the initial stocking of the bounty pool to award contributors,
	
who help build and curate our database of entities
•	
8% of tokens will be awarded to our advisors and ambassadors that helped the project
	
with their knowledge and expertise
•	
7% of tokens will be reserved for future partners who will join the project at a later 	
	stage
All tokens belonging to founders, employees and seed investors will be reverse vested for
24 months with monthly cliffs.

Crowdsale - 60%

Founders & Team - 16%

Investors - 4%

200.000.000

Viberate Contributors - 5%

VIB TOKENS

Advisors & Ambassadors - 8%

Future partners - 7%

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

10.3.5.
DISCOUNTS

Early contributors will be rewarded with a discount. The discount rate will drop with every
week, starting at 12% and ending with 0% on the last week of the ICO.

12%

9%

6%

3%

0%

Week 1

Week 2

Week 3

Week 4

BONUS

ICO start

BONUS

BONUS

BONUS

BONUS

ICO end

First 48h

10.4.
FUNDS DISTRIBUTION

10.4.1.
ALLOCATION OF
THE PRODUCT
DEVELOPMENT
PHASE
CONTRIBUTIONS

•	
	
	
•	
	
•	
	
•	
	
•	
	

40%

15%

15%

20%

10%

Technical
development
& user experience

Product development
& management

Database expansion
& support

Marketing, sales,
& PR

General and
administrative
expenses

40% of contributions is intended to cover the technical development costs of the
upcoming service features, starting with implementing marketplace functionalities
and additional entity features
15% of contributions will cover the costs of non-technical product development,
including project management, team management and business development
15% of contributions will be allocated to cover the costs of adding new entities into 	
the database, internally curating existing ones and setting up a support center
20% of contributions will fund the first marketing phase, covering basic marketing
operations, including advertising campaigns for user acquisition and branding
10% of contributions will cover day-to-day operations, office rent, office equipment, 	
travel expenses and legal fees

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

10.4.2.
ALLOCATION OF THE
MARKETING PHASE
CONTRIBUTIONS

•	
	
•	
	
•	
	

25%

15%

60%

Direct sales
expansion

Global PR
campaign

Global advertising
campaign

25% of contributions will cover the costs of direct sales to our target audiences, 	
including direct calls and personal meetings
15% of contributions will finance a global, ongoing PR campaign, targeted towards
specialized and mainstream media
60% of contributions will cover the costs of an ongoing global ad campaign covering
all relevant media outlets, designed to increase our userbase and assure marketplace liquidity

WWW.VIBERATE.IO · ICO@VIBERATE.COM

CONTACTS
General inquiries:
Viberate d.o.o.
Podutiska 92
1000 Ljubljana
Slovenia
E-mail: ico@viberate.com
Service: www.viberate.com
ICO: www.viberate.io

