White Paper
PAquarium tokens
Because at the end of the day we’re all fishes in the one big pond:
World!

Index
I.

Index ......................................................................................................................................... 1

II.

Summary ................................................................................................................................. 2
• Location
• Facts
• Targets and ICO Roadmap
• Why
• PAquarium token value proposition:

III.

Business model and project description ....................................................................... 4
General about PAquarium project idea
PAquarium visualization and concept
Why we are doing this
Location for aquarium
What is PAquarium lifetime ticket
PAquarium project Roadmap
Business legal status

IV.

ICO Roadmap ....................................................................................................................... 14

V.

ICO Financial management .............................................................................................. 17

VI.

Marketing............................................................................................................................... 19
Market analyses
Competition
Strategy
Tell a friend

VII.

PAquarium guarantee policy ........................................................................................... 22

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

Summary
We are building the largest aquarim in the world!

Location
Vote for Aquarium location!
Our investors choose a place for Aquarium! We will open voting during 3rd
week of ICO to find a place for the world’s biggest Aquarium. Only You as an
investor will have a chance to vote for any country of the world.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

Facts
ICO is only 20% of all financing. Rest 80% are coming from PAquarium equity
funds and other financial sources. This make PAquarium tokens strong!
For ICO PAquarium put on sale 1,2 b PAquarium tokens (PQT) for total value
120 m USD, where 1 USD = 10 tokens (or 1 token = 0,1 USD).
Targets and ICO Roadmap
Find place (global voting)
Aquarium architecture design (3D model + other)
Aquarium technical design (safety first)
Aquarium construction (will do it fast accordingly)
Filling aquarium (put fishes and animals inside)
Why
Symbol and proof!
PAquarium is a project series to build largest aquarium in the world
PAquarium token value proposition:
1. Real Estate: Your investment is covered buy real estate and physical
amusement park project.
2. Dividends: 20% of aquarium operational profit will be split between token
holders annually.
3. Lifetime Ticket: If You buy at least 1080 tokens, You get one lifetime
entrance ticket as bonus for aquarium when its ready.
4. Exchange: You can sell and exchange PAquarium tokens any time.
5. Goods: PAquarium tokens will be used for exchanging goods in aquarium
and other related businesses.
6. Other big things: More token usage options will be announced on
comminng PAquarium project phases
QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

Business model and project description
We seek to build the largest aquarium in the world.
There is no such other project in the world so far. We are unique. We are putting together 3 aspects:
First, social interaction, second, crowdfunding for raising the capital and third, social media and
modern marketing/sales activities.

Total Paquarium project budget 600 mUSD

ICO (20%)

Paqua Equity and Other Funds (80%)

For ICO we are issuing PAquarium tokens (PQT) to raise only 20% funds for this project. Rest
80% are coming from PAquarium Equity funds and other financial sources.
In total for ICO we will put on sale 1,2 bPAquarium tokens for total value 120 mUSD, where 1 USD
= 10 tokens (or 1 token = 0,1USD).

PAquarium token value proposition:
1. Real Estate: Your investment is covered buy real estate and physical
amusement park project.
2. Dividends: 20% of aquarium operational profit will be split between token
holders annually.
3. Lifetime Ticket: If You buy at least 1080 tokens, You get one lifetime
entrance ticket as bonus for aquarium when its ready.
4. Exchange: You can sell and exchange PAquarium tokens any time.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

5. Goods: PAquarium tokens will be used for exchanging goods in aquarium
and other related businesses.
6. Other big things: More token usage options will be announced on
comminng PAquarium project phases

General about PAquarium project idea
Yes, we are building the world’s biggest aquarium, yet it will not simply be
another giant building hoping to enter the Guinness Book of Records for its
sheer size. We are creating something greater – a symbol and the state of the
art for architecture, as well as a unique center of entertainment and recreation.
All genius is simple, and the ideas themselves find the right people. While
working in the finance sector, the author of this project had an opportunity to
find out how several financial programs make money out of nothing. Surely it
works! Yet, the author understood that the biggest winners of such programs
are corporations, not people. People are just instruments!
Then, once again, receiving an invitation to a new, perspective money program,
the author felt sick and tired of all this mess. He decided to create a brand new
program for people. Yet, rather than simply stashing the money in his pocket,
he decided to invest the earnings into a grand social project that gives back
something special to the people who are involved.
We had to make a product to sell, and that is how we arrived at the idea of
selling tickets online. An entrance ticket to a place that has not yet been built,
a ticket for a price that is affordable. The price of a cup of coffee or a sandwich.
The next question is – what to build? An aquarium! Why? Everyone on the
planet understands the nature of water and fish. To realize this idea, we need
the participation of the whole world, which is why we had to find a uniting
element. That familiar aspect, known to all, something that allows us to be one
collective, regardless of
our sex, age, nationality, race, or culture. What else could it be, if not water!
Easily, seemingly on its own, the idea found willing minds, and the work on this
project could begin. There is one author of the idea, yet in the team we are
many – project managers, financers, IT specialists, lawyers, marketing
QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

specialists. Each with their own knowledge and area of expertise, united by our
conviction in the logic of this idea. All of us have heard, and found something
personal in this idea, a dear reminder to participate, and the motivation to give.
When we found the common element, gave it the form of an aquarium and the
work on the project had begun, the architects expanded the idea with a vision
of their own. A rift in the land – the words that best describe our vision. A rift for
the current conflict of men and nature, a reminder of life, on the edge of the
oblivion. Our jointly made aquarium will serve as a proclamation to the following
generations, a statement on the division of our current society, and, yet – a
reminder, a confirmation that we wish to change it, and our ability to work
together to achieve it.
The concept of the aquarium building was also clear. From outside, the size of
the aquarium will be only partially comprehendible. The viewers will only see
the rift in the crust of the earth. Yet, inside this rift, wonders will happen. The rift
will be entirely filled with water, and inhabited by creatures of rivers, lakes, and
the ocean. To enter the building, the visitors must go underground, deeper, and
deeper into the depths, until they reach the very bottom of the sea.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

PAquarium visualization and concept

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

Why we are doing this
Symbol and Proof!
We believe that something great and visible is possible putting together
cryptocracy and Blockchain idea! All for people!
Knowledge, transparency and people are our values. We will openly show
every step of the project, every dollar made and spent. We will invest the
earnings into a grand social project that gives back something special to the
people.
It continues with the goal of transmitting the feeling that our capitalistic society
of consumers, information, communication, and countless organizations is
something more than just the life of bigger and smaller fish, joined together in
the fragile bubble of our aquarium.
It's no secret that money has amazing power, that money is power. It possesses
some charm, a magic that inspires and encourages us to do the impossible.
Yet it also has the power to subjugate, ruin and destroy. We truly love and
respect money for what it is, both for its light and dark sides. We believe that
money is a wonderful instrument (and just an instrument), the true value of
which it is possible to measure only by observing a true master of its use. If this
instrument is given to us, we want to use it elegantly.
Invite others to join and earn some extra pocket money from our partner
program. That is how simple it is.

Location for aquarium
The location for the aquarium is not decided yet but it is open for voting till Q4
2017! Vote!
For voting You must register in www.PAquarium.com and vote for any country
on the planet. The country that receives the most votes, in proportion to its
population, will receive our offer for the aquarium construction in its
administrative territory.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

What is PAquarium lifetime ticket
A lifetime ticket is the entrance rights to the world’s largest aquarium. This
means that you will be able to visit the aquarium as often as you like. Yes, it will
be valid forever.
If You buy at least 1080 tokens, You get one lifetime entrance ticket as bonus
for aquarium when its ready. Ticket is bonus to Your contribution.
Yes, You will get real ticket. You will can enter the aquarium by showing a valid
ID at the entrance. Your ID number will have to be identical: system and ticket.
Information about exchange process will follow.

PAquarium project Roadmap

Total Paquarium project budget 600 mUSD

Q4
2016

Project
started

Q4
2017

Choosed
place
(voting)

Q4
2018

Technical
project
approved

Q4
2018

Start
construct

Q4
2021

Openning

Management team
Down is visual illustration of the team involved and visual illustration of
responsible divisions.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

This team is gathered together for the creation and publication of idea. Team
will be expanded when project will start hitting targets.

The board

Project management division
Ivars Rungis
Jekateina Cepjolkina

Ingus
Staltmanis

Marketing division
Inga Lyzan
Daiga Bitena

Andars Ignacs

Customer support center
Daiga Idarto
Finance and Legal
Ingus Staltmanis
Rolands Klincis
Architect and construction division
Valts Gutmanis
IT division
Andars Ignacs
Oskars Pilags
Imars Birzleja

All divisions are subordinated to the Board.
Decision making team Ingus Staltmanis, Andars Igancs, Rolands Klincis, Inga
Lyzan and Daiga Bitena.

Ingus Staltmanis
Ingus has more than 15 years practical experience leading different scale
programs and projects. He has been acting as a associate in investment
banking firm, being cross border project manager in international environment
succeeding large transition project programs and top manager for different
companies.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

His strong capacity is to motivate and lead people in very high stress conditions.
For the last years, he has been working for Latvian largest IT Company
Lattelecom Technology, being responsible for top software development
programs in Latvia as E-Health, E-customs data processing system, Identity
document information system for Citizenship and Migration Affairs and other
programs.
He has graduated different management programs in SSERiga, BA School of
Business and Finance and Latvian University as Lawyer. His hobby is to share
practical knowledge with field professionals as well as students at universities.
He is responsible for motivating people, financials and legal questions.
Andars Igancs
He is technical heart of the team. He is 20+ years experienced field IT specialist.
He has acquired “White hacker” knowledge and is responsible for PAquarium
project technical development and safety.

Ivars Rungis
Acting also as Vice President at IPMA: International Project Management
Association.
20+ Years experienced and certified professional. Project, Program and
Portfolio Management in a IT software development and infrastructure
construction areas. LEAN thinking implementation in organizations. Always
interested in improving project management processes.
Specialties: Financing products; IT system development projects; Construction
project management; Project Management Office implementation; Project
Portfolio implementation; Governmental projects.
He is responsible and acting as head of PAquarium project management
division.
Jekaterina Cepjolkina

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

10+ Years experienced project manager working for different scale projects
and sectors (finance, IT and construction). She has 10+ Years field
experience working for different scale projects and sectors (construction,
finance and IT).
Jekaterina has worked for large Worldwide corporations as Barclays Plc,
Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland (RBS), Accenture and others. She is
assisting Ivars for project management.
Rolands Klincis
30+ years experienced financial specialist. His focus is financial fund
management. He has been acting as senior manager and vice president for
various investment companies in different locations Worldwide.
He will be responsible for PAquarium fund management.

Inga Lyzan
She has been media and marketing specialist since 20th century. Extensive
experience working in Marketing and Media sectors. She is communication
advisors who specialize in coaching speakers, managers and working
professionals on how to win hearts and minds of teams and clients. She has
raised the performance of many individuals and have enabled companies to
win significant business.
She will be responsible for PR, Marketing and Promotion of PAquarium project.
Daiga Idarto
8+ years experienced marketing and advertising manager. 5+ years she has
been working for various retail companies and 3+ years job experience in book
publishing companies including Janis Roze (2nd largest publishing and selling
group in Latvia). She has skills in branding and creating lines of brands within
an organization. She has been responsible for developing, implementing and
executing strategic marketing plans for an organization or project. Her speciality
is content writing and copywriting.
She is responsible for project (product) development and promotion.
Valts Gutmanis
QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

10+ years of experience architect. New and ambitious professional with bright
visions of future architecture.
He is an author of PAquarium visual depiction. He will be part of project
construction team.

Business legal status
We are officially registered in Estonia register of enterprises.
Quantum Group OÜ
Registration No.: 14220024
Adress: Hansu street 38/2-20, Haabersti linnaosa, Tallinn, Harju maakond,
13523, ESTONIA
Bank: LHV
Accounnt: EE647700771002503164
We are Crowdfunding organization and we work under the Financial
Supervision Authority of Estonia. Considering Estonian law, our business
model does not require any special licensing. This is approved by the Financial
Supervision Authority of Estonia by official letter.
We are not a Broker, Financial Institution, Charitable Institution, Credit
Institution, Creditor, Credit Intermediary, Insurance Company, Insurance
Intermediary, Fund Management Company, Investment and Pension Fund,
Investment Firm, Issue of Security, E-money Institution, Payment Service
Provider, SME-s considered as qualified Investor.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

ICO Roadmap
For ICO PAquarium put on sale 1,2 bPAquarium tokens (PQT) for total value 120 mUSD, where 1
USD = 10 tokens (or 1 token = 0,1 USD).

ICO Structure and bonuses
A progressive sales and bonus system is on place.
Bonuses will be available during pre-sale and the first four weeks of the
Crowdfunding as follows:
pre-sale 25% bonus Tokens will be provided.
on week 1 of the Crowdfunding 20% bonus Tokens will be provided;
on week 2 of the Crowdfunding 15% bonus Tokens will be provided;
on week 3 of the Crowdfunding 10% bonus Tokens will be provided;
on week 4 of the Crowdfunding 5% bonus Tokens will be provided; and
on week 5 no bonuses.
PAquarium may determine in its absolute discretion that any other bonuses
may apply during the Crowdfunding.
For every affiliate or new partner token holder will grant extra 10% of tokens
(counting from new partner token count). Referral link is placed at partner
dashboard (authorized part).

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

ICO Milestones
Funding milestones secure the development and construction of major project
phases.

Phase 1 (1 mUSD)
Choose place for aquarium
•World level voting system
•Paqua application/game
•Promotion and sales

Phase 2 (6 mUSD)
Aquarium architecture design
•Visual concept
•3D model
•Online advertising campaigns
•Legal and Compliance activities

Phase 3 (10 mUSD)
Aquarium technical design/architecture
•Chooses constructor/tender
•Permits and documentation for construction
•Preparation for construction
•Networking and sales events

Phase 5 (75 mUSD)
Aquarium construction
•Excavations and Foundation
•Utilities
•Framing and construction
•Certification and documentation

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

Phase 5 (25 mUSD)
Filling aquarium
•Buy fishes and animals for aquarium
•Sales and promotion activities

Phase 6 (3 mUSD)
Grand opening
•Sales and promotion activities

PAquarium token value proposition:
1. Real Estate: Your investment is covered buy real estate and physical
amusement park project.
2. Dividends: 20% of aquarium operational profit will be split between token
holders annually.
3. Lifetime Ticket: If You buy at least 1080 tokens, You get one lifetime
entrance ticket as bonus for aquarium when its ready.
4. Exchange: You can sell and exchange PAquarium tokens any time.
5. Goods: PAquarium tokens will be used for exchanging goods in aquarium
and other related businesses.
6. Other big things: More token usage options will be announced on
comminng PAquarium project phases

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

ICO Financial management
ICO Spending Overview for Fund Raised
Funds raised from PAquarium token crowdsale is planned to go into the following 3 main
categories:
1. Aquarium Construction & Development (65%)
2. Marketing and Promotion (20%)
3. Operations & Legal (15%)
Aquarium Construction & Development include:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Project technical design.
Construction.
Cost to hire and maintain a team of construction experts and advisors.
Other spending’s related only to normal construction process and needs.
Marketing and Promotion can include but not limited to:

1. Running online advertising campaigns, such as Google adwords and
Facebook advertisements
2. Running promotions to attract customers to use our platform and refer their
friends to sign up
3. Cost to hire and maintain an in-house business development and marketing
team,
or
engaging
an
outsourced
vendor
for
business
development/marketing purposes, whichever is more cost effective.
4. Cost of running speaker and networking events
5. Press Releases
6. Other
Operations & Legal can include but not limited to:
1. Cost of to maintain operations team. This includes customer service
support, finance department and project review team who will engage with
our platform users on a regular basis.
2. Rental, furniture, utilities and equipment hardware cost for locations in which
we have an office set up.
3. Server and Hosting costs for platforms.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

4. Redesign and improvements to UI/UX.
5. Legal and Compliance costs, to ensure our business is compliant with the
laws which we operate in.
6. Coordinate with expert legal providers to support project creators for their
ICO projects.
7. Having PAquarium Tokens listed on the various virtual currency exchanges.
8. Other

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

Marketing
Our product is straight forward and simple.
We sell Tokens to raise the funds for the World’s largest aquarium and create new crypto currency
for future development similar projects.
During ICO buying certain amount of Tokens You will get lifetime entrance ticket to the world’s
largest aquarium, see description above.
We have developed marketing strategy for social media and networks. We have two target groups:
those who are open for new and analytical minds.

Market analyses
There are no analogue products or offers in the market. We will target
population:
Year 1 (total 1 282 million people market):
USA 325 million
Europe 740 million
Russia 147 million
Australia 24 million
Canada 36 million
United Arab Emirates 10 million
Starting from Year 2:
China 1 400 million
Japan 130 million
Rest 4 500 millions
We believe that from total 2 800 million people we plan to target, our message
will reach at least 5% (140 million) people. We believe that around 5% (7 million)
of reached people will buy our offer.

We believe it will work and we do this because our project was created with the
goal to openly demonstrate the illusory nature of our world. How simply the idea
of making a profit causes us to join in all manner of money producing schemes.
QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

How easily the competition for the highest, most prestigious position creates
our desire for fame and power. And, how excellent marketing makes it all look
so damn exciting.
People buy dreams, ideas, promises, status, prestige, and the desire for
fulfillment. People feel the taste of victory whenever they sell their imaginary
friends or ghosts in the garage on eBay. People celebrate the moments where
we can create money out of thin air.
We will openly show every step of the project, every dollar made and spent.
We believe that money is a wonderful instrument (and just an instrument), the
true value of which is possible to measure only by observing a true master of
its use.

Competition
There are no direct competitors for this project. Nobody is building the World’s
largest aquarium and creating value for coins in this manner.

Strategy
We will work with buyers stimuli (7P +Social, Situational, Economical and
Lifestyle). With our marketing campaigns, we will focus on transforming
perception, values and believes.
We have product and brand.

Tell a friend
Hope you're in! Invite your friends to join! The more friends you involve, the
more partner and affiliate money you make. There are no limitations.
By becoming a partner of the project, and finding likeminded people, you can
easily and enjoyably earn some money and tokens.

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

For every affiliate or new partner token holder will grant extra 10% of tokens
(counting from new partner token count). Referral link is placed at partner
dashboard (authorized part).

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

PAquarium guarantee policy
Platform operates 24/7/365. Our online support centre works from 8:00 till 22:00 EET. Every
received e-mails will be answered during 2 business days.
We guarantee that, in case of necessity, we are able to conduct a financial audit and disclose a valid
and transparent account of our revenue and its use.
The main goal of the PAquarium project is to openly show that money making is just a show created
by the post-industrial society. Rather than just stashing the profits in our pockets, we use this project
to gather money for the good of the society, by creating a lasting legacy – the Aquarium. Therefore,
we resolve to go beyond the collection of required funds and the construction of the Aquarium – we
also aim to make the money-collection mechanism as transparent as possible, to make it more
understandable to our Users.
We guarantee that every User is informed about the progress of the project, and the division of the
collected money.
We guarantee that every user will receive monthly reports about the current developments in the
Project. These monthly updates currently include an e-mail, regular mail and frequent postings on
the Platform and social networks.
We are committed to include our Users in the decision-making process, to the best of our ability,
and to inform them about the course of the decisions made within the project.
We guarantee that the Lifetime ticket, or the entrance to the Aquarium, will be available to every
User within the working hours of the Aquarium, by presenting an ID at the entrance.
We guarantee, that the name and surname of this user will be displayed on the Wall of Honor in the
Aquarium. This is optional for user, not mandatory.
The data protection of our Users is among our top priorities; therefore we guarantee, that the
personal data of our users is supervised and protected from the possible risks of fraud and
endangerment. In protecting data safety, we can predict the majority of scenarios, yet there are
always unforeseen risks. We guarantee that, if there are cases of endangerment or attempts at
fraud, we will aim to resolve the situations as efficiently and decisively as possible.
If, in three years from the start of the project, the aquarium construction has not begun, we
guarantee, that all of the collected money will be donated to charity. The money shall be divided

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

between various countries, in accordance to the amount we have received from each particular
country. The cause of the charity will be decided by the Users who have gained the most followers.
We resolve to promote the good name of this Project and guarantee that every User and participant
can be proud of their part in this Project.

Because at the end of the day we’re all fishes in the one big pond:
World!

QUANTUM GROUP OU

ICO.PAQUARIUM.COM | INFO@PAQUARIUM.COM

