The blockchain of the creative world

The blockchain of the creative world

Creativechain
Decentralized platform for the registration and distribution of content that certifies the
authorship and license of any digital creation making them indelible.
THE CREATIVECHAIN TEAM
creativechain.org
Info@creativechain.org
23/02/2017

ABSTRACT:
This document describes a platform that applies the blockchain technology to create a
complete autonomous and decentralized system of registration and distribution of contents,
to indelibly certify the intellectual property and the license of any digital content. The result is
an ecosystem of functions supported by smart contracts. This way, creative communities can
be liberated and empowered juridically and economically at the same time that the ecosystem
eliminates from the equation all the intermediaries that make the processes of creation and
cultural distribution more expensive.

1 INTRODUCTION

2 DESCRIPTION

Digital content distribution media rarely innovate primarily
because they are benefited with their classic business model.
An example of this is the controversial copyright laws, which
some states have reformulated (under pressure from copyright
management entities) to protect the interests of an industry that
does not seem to understand the nature of the internet. The result
is a series of tensions where the interests of traditional industry
collide with the right to information and access to culture.
As a reflection of this malaise in the last decades numerous
“free software”, "open source" or "copyleft" movements have
emerged. All of them use copyright as a means to subvert the
restrictions traditionally imposed by the copyright industry on
the distribution and development of knowledge.
The recent irruption of blockchain technology gives many
possibilities for the registration and distribution of intellectual
property without intermediaries. The power of attorney along with
the decentralized distribution of digital P2P content articulate a
new paradigm shift in the era of digital culture.
This paper focuses on how Creativechain uses blockchain
technology and smart contracts to challenge the centralized
power of traditional copyright management entities systems. It
offers a public and transparent alternative of intellectual property
registration and an innovative ecosystem in the field of peer-topeer content distribution that frees creators from the centralized
intermediation power of traditional digital content industries.

Creativechain is a decentralized platform for the registration
and distribution of content that certifies the authorship and
license of any work or creation making them indelible.
A tool for the empowerment of artists and all kinds of creative
people who produce, share and distribute digital content.
The platform applies the power of attorney of the revolutionary
Blockchain technology in the process of registering content
to create incorruptible time stamps that certify the intellectual
property of any digital work.
Creativechain incorporates all the advantages derived from
the innovation of crypto coins. In this way, without the need to
use bank accounts, purchases, micropayments or donations
can be made to the authors of the registered contents.
For the platform, creative chains are the ability of art and
culture to interweave any kind of intellectual creation. When
it is decided to use a copyleft licensed image to complete a
new work of art, an invisible link is created that unites these two
works forever. In that sense, the platform has been designed to
strengthen the relationships that are generated in the processes
of collective creation, therefore, any payment or donation can
be chained to reward with a percentage to all the authors that
are aligned in a creative chain.
When someone makes a payment to a work, a percentage
is distributed to the entire chain of works that follow. In this way
the payment or donation is extended in an "automagic" way to

3

The blockchain of the creative world

all the derivative works that have participated giving away part
of its content.
If the innovative blockchain technology is used in Bitcoin
to certify monetary transactions, in Creativechain it is used
to certify content registrations (distribution licenses, smart
contracts, metadata or files). This technological adaptation
makes it possible for the first time in history to create a content
distribution system that is decentralized, public, transparent,
traceable, incorruptible and free code.
Creativechain is a bet for the public benefit of free culture
and common creation as a collaborative method of growing and
guaranteeing the right to culture.
3 CHARACTERISTICS
3.1 Registration of intellectual property
Problem: Any digital content is very easy to copy and
distribute. This feature often makes it very difficult to prove the
authenticity, authorship or distribution license of any original
creation. Currently even if a certain work is announced, tagged
or linked with a Creative Commons license does not mean
that it is sealed under a power of attorney. In a rights dispute
this can be an inconvenience to the author when it comes to
demonstrating his authorship.
Solution: Creativechain uses blockchain technology and
its power of attorney to solve this problem by creating an
incorruptible and inalterable time stamp that allows to certify
the authorship and license of use or distribution of any work or
digital creation. In this way the platform becomes a kind of book
of public records that can be consulted and verified by anyone
at all times. Texts, images, videos, songs ... can be protected
allowing the original creator to be recognized in the event of a
conflict of license infringement by a third party.
	

3.2 Notary registration of licenses

Problem: Since the creation of Creative Commons licenses
in 2002 to date, the use of these licenses in works has grown
to more than 1100 million in 2015. This increase makes many
creators receive situations of non-compliance of their license
by third parties or companies. Almost always these conflicts
end up being forgotten by the independent author. The most
common causes that push the author to not complain usually is
not being able to demonstrate the authorship of their work, the
legal ignorance or the lack of money to pay the legal costs that
would entail claiming their rights.
Solution: Creativechain offers a very simple and economical
solution to empower the authors when claiming their rights.
On the one hand the platform issues a digital certificate of
authenticity that can be sent to the company that is infringing
the rights.
At the same time, the platform incorporates an open channel
of direct legal advice with specialized copyright lawyers who will
be able to guide and manage online the procedures to claim
their rights.
The nature of the copyright culture creates a gap in cultural
participation.
At Creativechain we understand that all people have the right
to participate in cultural life and enjoy its benefits. That is why we
encourage, protect and give priority to the use of free licenses
as a means of helping to reduce the cultural participation gap
and facilitate the construction of a free culture necessary for the
exercise of the right of access to the culture of all societies.

3.3 Smart contracts
Problem: Traditional methods of transferring copyright are
often processes that generate an economic and temporary cost
for all parties involved.
Solution: Creativechain registers content with a system that
is capable of issuing "smart contracts" to make work assignment
agreements. A smart contract acts as an informatic program
that facilitates, secures, enforces and executes agreements
between individuals and organizations. These contracts are
signed cryptographically between the parties and are intended
to provide greater security than traditional contract law and
reduce transaction costs along the process of contracting.
Creativechain's smart contracts mean a huge saving of time
and money for artists, producers, institutions, organizations or
galleries working in the culture sector.
Contracts can be public or encrypted and guarantee that
the two parties accept the conditions. With the smart contracts
of Creativechain any person can make sure that the purchaser
of the assignment of rights has enough money to be unlocked
at the time of the signing and registration.

	

3.4 Transparency and traceability
of consumption data.

Problem: Any content distribution companies like Google,
Youtube or Amazon privatize statistics and consumption data. This
causes technological giants to have a market monopoly, creating
consumer trends and manipulating any sale on their platforms.
Society is increasingly aware of this power and is unwilling
to cede its information to large multinationals that offer free
services to convert user information into a privatized and
marketable value. In most cases this information is sold to third
parties to multiply their value, as happens in the advertising use.
In this sense we must remember the famous axiom that says;
"When something is free, the product is you."
Solution: In Creativechain, all f interaction and consumption
data are public, always respecting author or consumer’s choice
of identity and anonymity. Only users can decide to reveal their
identity to who they want and even publish their information in
an encrypted way. In this way, any user can use the network’s
statistics to improve their content offer on equal terms with other
users.
In Creativechain, the content owners are the authors, and
they will always be able to prove it with the records that have
been registered in the blockchain.
3.5 Distribution of TFS files in network Torrent
Problem: Currently digital content distribution companies
use private servers where all content is centralized. In this
way the content that we upload remains opaque in the hands
of intermediaries and their private interests, being able to be
manipulated by the lack of transparency. Usually they censure
or eliminate contents without prior notice. In most cases, these
intermediaries acquire the right to include in both their terms
and conditions of use the ownership of the digital archive and
the right to exploit it.
Solution: The complete decentralization of all the metadata
in a blockchain is the solution to fight against the accumulation
of power that some content distribution companies have.
Tarsius File System (TFS) has been developed to provide
a solution to the unlimited storage and temporary perpetuity.
TFS allows file storage while guarantees the availability of data
with 10 copies. The number of copies can be configured by

4

The blockchain of the creative world

the blockchain system consensus. TFS encrypts the documents
and uses the Torrent network as a parasite that ensures the
stable permanence of all registered files.
Although it is always recommended to the user to have the
original file as a proof, in case of legal dispute the TFS system
works as a backup to rescue the original file while it acts as
a method of viewing content from the decentralized platform
Creativechain.
All metadata records that link to the files are stored in the
block chain. This way no one can modify a single record as it
would not match the information shared by the other nodes and
would not be validated. Thanks to this process, we are able to
offer a distributed and public registry system whose consensus
resides in the code itself and any modification of the initial source
code should be approved by more than 51% of the nodes.
3.6 Creativecoin: the crypto currency
of Creative communities.
Problem: In many countries, artists and creators are
separated from any funding strategy because of the difficulty
of accessing a bank account. At the same time, banks act as
intermediaries by imposing fees on transactions that end up
making very expensive the final cost of production of any work
or creation.
Solution: Creativechain aims to free cultural production
from the intermediation of traditional banks and offer new and
more inclusive financing services. That is why the platform
offers the service of management of collections, payments
or donations with Creativecoin, the first cryptocurrency
created and designed to meet the needs of all creative
communities that produce and distribute digital content.
There are many benefits attributed to the use of virtual
currencies. A global currency that does not belong to any
state or government and can be used around the world without
geographical or political barriers. Being foreign to the fiduciary
system can not create debt with it and its value does not depend
on the intervention of any central bank.
Creativecoin uses up to 8 decimals divisible. This fact
facilitates the micropayments to all type of contents. The
transactions are made in real time and their execution is
completed in a few minutes. The currency is designed to be
impossible to falsify, nor can a double expense be made without
the network detecting it. The cryptocurrency is anonymous and
no one is obliged to reveal its identity. This makes of Creativecoin
a perfect currency to register contents anonymously.
All transactions and registrations are transparent and are
recorded in an open account book. The use of Creativecoin
entails lower costs per transaction than any traditional credit card
system or payment gateways such as Paypal. Creativecoin is a
peer-to-peer currency and works like cash, with the advantage
that it occupies a tiny space so you can save a huge amount on
a small file or a USB stick.
This way, Creativechain goes one step beyond copyleft by
applying "copyfarleft". This means that the platform not only bets
on the defense, protection and distribution of copyleft content,
but also gives "fintech" solutions for the economic emancipation
of People who produce it.
Creativecoin blockchain has three basic functions:
registering content metadata, issuing smart contracts and using
a cryptocurrency.
Unlike other currencies, Creativecoin contemplates a basic
value that is to register contents.
The fee is 0.001 CREA that is distributed in full to the nodes
that have confirmed the transactions.

3.7 Peer to Peer Content Distribution
The Creativechain platform adapts to the multiple needs of
digital content creators by facilitating various P2P distribution
methods for their works.
3.7.1 Creative Commons & Copyleft
It allows to view and download for free, as long as the creator
is respected according to the Creative Commons Attribution
license. In order to encourage the use of free licenses, the
platform rewards with Creativecoin the works licensed with CC
that have obtained a better evaluation by the community.
The author can introduce a work with copyright license and
set a total price for his work.
Once the money has been obtained thanks to the donations
or micropayments of other users, the intelligent contract unlocks
the work and issues a new copyleft license that liberates the
work for the whole community.
3.7.2 Royalty Free
Purchase and sale of Royalty-Free licenses for unlimited
use on any project and forever. Purchases directly support the
creator of the work.
3.7.3 Equity Crowdfunding
The creator of the work offers a percentage of participation
for investors. This way the benefits of distribution of the work are
distributed automatically among all the microinverters.
3.7.4 Donations
The platform allows to make donations in Bitcoin and
Creativecoin for all the works registered in Creativechain’s
blockchain.
3.7.5 Limited Edition
Creators can distribute their creations in limited edition
mode. This means that creators can limit the broadcast of a
digital artwork and sell a limited number of reproductions that
are certified and numbered.
3.8 Creative Chains
We understand "creative chains" as the ability of art and
culture to interweave any kind of intellectual creation. When a
creator decides to use a copyleft licensed image to complete
a new artwork generates an invisible link that links these two
works forever.
Thanks to blockchain technology we can now record,
trace and visualize in a decentralized public archive all the
connections that are generated between any creation.
This system facilitates the chaining of payments to derivative
works, giving an innovative solution to the recognition and
economic reward of the creative chains.
This characteristic is the one that gives name to the platform
and its final objective is to be able to create a map of connections
that help us to understand how the cultural transmission is
articulated and the creative processes that shape it over time.

5

The blockchain of the creative world

to distribute their creations.
4.2 Content Consumers
Users of digital content that seek new ways to access
all types of cultural products without intermediaries. Directly
Author-consumer or Fan-Artist.
4.3 Institutions
Organizations or institutions committed to the commons that
seek a technological way to democratize their digital heritage.

Creative chain
3.9 Creation of Dapps

4.4 Companies and content platforms

Creativechain is an open source ecosystem that allows other
content platforms to create their own decentralized applications
that use the Creativecoin blockchain to store and index content.
These platforms can be specialized in Art, photography, videos,
ebooks, software, music, multimedia banks ... any distribution
system is possible.

Audiovisual production companies, social networks or
content platforms that publish and distribute digital content from
third parties.

3.10 Social Network
Creativechain works like any social network where content
is displayed or distributed. You can create distribution channels
and specific communities where interact with content from other
authors, using, rating and commenting on their creations. The
system incorporates an encrypted chat so that you can contact
privately with the artists and authors of the content.
All interactions between users and contents are registered
in blockchain
	
4. THE COMMUNITY
4.1 Creators
Artists, musicians, designers, writers and audiovisual
professionals who produce digital content and use the Internet

	

4.5 Cultural centers

Galleries, museums or cultural centers can implement a
sure and economical system of transparency to manage rights
of distribution and exploitation of works of art.
4.6 Specialized lawyers
Copyright lawyers seeking new tools to defend the rights of
their customers.
5. TECHNICAL DESCRIPTION
Creativechain uses the Blockchain protocol modified
and adapted to the needs that are required for a platform of
registration and distribution of contents as a greater OPRETURN
data allowed.

Flow Creativechain Net

6

The blockchain of the creative world

5.1 Specifications Creativecoin:
Currency Name: Creativecoin
Symbol / Label: CREA
Total issue of the currency: 115,000,000
End of coin creation: 91,9 Years
Hash algorithm: Scrypt
Work type: Proof-of-Work (POW)
Block spacing: 2 minutes
Maximum block size: 4 MB
Minimum Confirmation: 8 Blocks
Cycle of difficulty recalculation: 720 blocks
Data function implementation: Segregated Witness (Segwit)

first phase starts in the genesis block 1/1/2/3/5/8/13/21/34/55
Until the block Fibo 514229 (2 years), where it will start the
second inverted phase 34/13/8/5/3/2/1 / until reaching block
Fibo 24157817 (91.9 years). In the same way the sequence
of the blocks that mark the eras is based on the sequence of
Fibonacci.
In this way each era has a golden proportionality where
each change of era is 1.6 times greater than the previous one.
The objective of adding this sequence to the creation of
the coin is to give it proportional and numerical beauty while
avoiding the speculative mining that many currencies often
suffer during their first years of life.

5.1.1 Currency issue and mining
Creativechain is a multidisciplinary project that unites
diverse fields of knowledge, such as art and culture, with the
new technologies of communication, computing, encryption,
mathematics and economics. From this fortunate crossing is
born the motivation to apply the Fibonacci series, (the name of
the celebrated mathematician of the Middle Ages, Leonardo
of Pisa known as Fibonacci), an ancient mathematical formula
that surprisingly manifests itself in many areas of nature and has
surprised both Mathematical biologists and artists.
It is already known that in the classical period Greeks used
the essence of this sequence, the golden number φ (fi) 1.61803
that was applied to the design of their sculptures as well as to
the construction of their temples among other manifestations of
Greek art.

Overture of Fibo 450 days

The number φ is related to the fibonacci sequence being
this a midpoint between the numbers describing the sequence.

Fn + 1 / Fn
The division between the Fibonacci numbers approaches
asymptotically to the golden number, for example:
34/21 = 1.69047619, 55/34 = 1.67647059, 89/55 =
1.6181818, 144/89 = 1.617977528.
The genesis of Creativecoin follows a Fibonacci sequence
structure with rewards every 2 minutes with a 2-phase path: The

Full sumohony of Fibo 91.9

Creativecoin distribution

7

The blockchain of the creative world

5.2 Visual CREA
5.2.1 Display standard
From Pyt h agoras (569 BC) who chose as a logo for his
school t h e pentagonal star, a geometric figure where all
parts ar e related to each other following the proportion of
the gold e n section, there are many cases of artists who have
used thi s proportion in their works of art. Phidias (500 BC) in
the desi g ns of the Parthenon or Leonardo da Vinci (1452
AD) in s o me of his paintings more known as the Gioconda
or Vitru v ian man are just some of the best known examples.
In visual aesthetics the reason for using this ratio is related to the
attempt to achieve a pleasant and symmetrical perception of the
forms and relationships that are generated between them
Visual CREA is the visual standardization system of JSON
data structures, produced by CREA's blockchain. This system
is based on standard display rules that use the golden ratio to
display data, documents or files on any digital display device.

the platform.
- Number of requests to each type of content.
- Number of requests to each content.
- Number of searches per text string.
- Number of signatures received by type of signature.
-Traffic and frequency
These 5 indicators give millions of possibilities for each
developer to take advantage of information as he pleases and
generates the statistics that best suit him to determine trends in
the distribution market.
These indicators allow you to create more realistic
consumption statistics, since there is no possibility of
manipulation by the platform.
In this way and unlike the other centralized platforms
like Google or Amazon in Creativechain all the people have
the same power of access to the information of the network
without generating positions of privileges between users and
distributors.
5.4 CREA Rewards Protocol
Part of the funds obtained in the crowsales (8%) are used as
a reward for authors who have distributed their work under open
licenses. For the fair distribution of these funds an algorithm that
values ​​the quality of the content is used crossing all the data of
interact i on of the network. The consensus of the network can
vary and regulate the algorithm indicators.
5.5 Crea ID

Visual Crea Sistem
5.2.2 3D Data Navigation
It is th e multidimensional visualization system that uses
data structures as objetus or arrais with infinite multidimensional
position s and possibilities. The data navigation structure in
CREA's b l ockchain consists of 3 Dimensions. Each block of
information can scroll through all dimensions depending on the
configuration that the user sets according to their search criteria.
Example : The top-down navigation will correspond to the
works o f the author, left-right works related by keywords and
inside- o utside correspond to navigation in time by date of
registr a tion in the blockchain. This system allows to simply
navigate in the public archive by applying the time dimension
and thus check the order of registration and sealing over time.
Example:
D = Search Hash
P = Point in space
Z = Time
Rdw = Related with hash with who publish
Rdp = Related with the publish
p[d] [z] [rdp] [rdw]
5.3 Fair Indexing of Data
Creativechain's philosophy is to develop a content search
system in blockchain as fair as possible for all users. For this,
each day (range that can be reviewed by the consensus) all the
nodes emit the data of interaction statistics and consumption of

Each use r can remain anonymous or provide as many
proofs a b out their identity as they want to be consulted by a
third pa r ty or organization that wants to give him access for
any purpose that is required through the use of his public and
private keys.
5.6 Smart contracts
The Crea t ivechain platform allows you to incorporate
any type of license into a smart contract to seal assignment
agreemen t s or to sell and distribute the work in the channels
or communities of the platform. Contracts based on methods of
distribution that favor collective creation:
Smarts C Commons: Contracts relating to the parties with a
Creative Commons license or copyleft
Royalty F ree Stock Photography: Contracts based on
agreements of purchase and sale of free licenses for unlimited
use in any project and forever.
Equity Crowd: Agreements for the distribution of dividends
as participation for project investors. In this way the benefits of
distribution of the work are distributed automatically among all
the microinverters.
Sponsor License: License to sponsor contents of users who
have activated this function in their project.
Creative Chain License: License based on a Creative
Commons l icense to string derivative works whose profits
are dist r ibuted in a chained way with a Percentage X to all
mentioned works.
The crea t or of "smart contracts" that incorporates the
platform allows you to design contracts tailored to fit the needs
of each cultural sector.
The purchase of works directly supports the creator of the
work and its creative chain.

8

The blockchain of the creative world

6 Conclusion

Smart contract model
5.7 Registration Fee
The content registration fee in the Creativecoin blockchain
has a fixed price of 0.001 CREA. This price is the same for all
contents and goes entirely for the miners of the network. Taking
into account that we are talking about a content platform, the
volume of records will be one of the largest percentages with
respect to the total volume of transactions of the network. This
percentage ensures a good reward for the miners which in turn
will motivate the increase of nodes and with it a greater security
of the network
5.8 TFS files

Thanks to the arrival of Internet 1.0 and the blogosphere, for
the first time people had the opportunity to show their creations
to millions of people without spending enough money for it. In
the case of the music industry, it meant a revolution in which
producers or labels ceased to be the essential routes for selling
more records. Years later arrived the revolution of Internet 2.0
or also known as the "social networks revolution". The artists
had hundreds of platforms where they could show their work,
meet their fans, talk to them and exchange knowledge in a
bidirectional way.
Soon, the first companies that monopolized and
standardized their own methods of content distribution emerged.
Private capital companies that work to capitalize on the content
uploaded by users and without the least participation in the
company by its users. Free platforms like Youtube that were
centralized structured controlling all the content and privatizing
all the data of consumption and interaction of the users. Now
society is becoming more aware of this power and is not willing
to cede its information to large multinationals that offer free
services to convert the information of the users into a privatized
and marketable value. In most cases this information is sold to
third parties to multiply their value, as happens in the advertising
use.
Naturally now comes a third revolution, the irruption
of blockchain technology also known as Internet 3.0. This
technology marks a paradigm shift that will affect the foundations
of the digital content distribution industries, improving internal
project democracy, transparency of data and the sharing of
creative communities at a global level.
An important feature of the blockchain is that it allows you to
create independent ecosystems that use their own currencies
and their own systems to validate relationships between users
with the help of smart contracts. This combination has created
for the first time in history the possibility of creating projects and
Decentralized Autonomous Organization (DAO). This is a great
leap that opens the door to a greater democratization of content
distribution systems.
Platforms like Creativechain evolve and implement
improvements according to the consensus of 51% of the
network. This allows the evolution of the project is always
subject to the acceptance of its users and their needs.
This compendium of features causes the elimination of all
the intermediaries that distort the distribution and the relations
between the users of the platform. From a creative perspective
these intermediaries exert a power that indirectly represses the
creative freedoms of every person that produces digital content.
There is a drive in contemporary societies that is making a
transversal change in all spheres of culture. This drive is clearly
committed to a more just and decentralized future free of major
power centers which will positively affect political, economic
and creative freedoms.
7 References
Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash
system. 2008.
Litecoin Project https://github.com/litecoin-project
Simone Aliprandi - Creative Commons: a user guide. 2010
Free Software, Free Society: Selected Essays of Richard M.
Stallman 2009
Estado del procomún 2015: Creativecommons.org
Creativechain:https://github.com/creativechain/

Tarsius File System (TFS)

9

