Internet of Coins
Hybrid Assets for Peer-to-Peer Intersystemic Value Transfer
version: 1.0, date: 15.12.2014, author: Joachim de Koning

Abstract
A meta-protocol and blockchain integration solution for transacting value across different
digital currency systems would allow for multiple decentralized financial platforms to exchange value and thus form a coherent cryptosphere, without needing intermediary financial
institutions. Third party services currently assist users to exchange one form of digital cash
or asset for another, but a trusted third party is still required to mediate these transactions.
We propose a solution to the problem of isolated digital currency systems using a meta-level
transfer protocol with an extendable design, making accessible any kind of blockchain-based
economy or other digital cash system for cross-blockchain and inter-system transactions.
A dynamic proof-of-allocation mechanism provides verification of solvency to any of the
transferable assets on such a high-level platform, and makes it possible for anonymous allocation providers to earn rewards to be part of an autonomous, decentralized exchange
system. Simultaneously, any network participant may act as an agent for the realization
of an encrypted exchange of value between two peers. Information is transacted across the
blockchains or digicash systems of the respective value-holders being traded, while node connections are directly negotiated without retaining or storing any records. As with Bitcoin,
the network itself requires minimal structure, and messages are broadcast on a best effort
basis. Swarm cryptography and multiple peer connections employ failover restructuring of
transactions and messaging, and nodes can leave and rejoin the network at will, updating
their allocation tables from any random node.

1

1

Introduction

Since the inception of Bitcoin, we have seen the rise of many digital cash descendants that either
imitate or replicate the peer-to-peer version of electronic cash that Bitcoin was designed to be.
Besides blockchain technology, decentralized asset exchanges[1] have been built to facilitate
the issuing of virtual assets. Ledgerless[2] systems have also been in development, even before
Bitcoin. While the existing solutions may function as intended, exchanges in value between
these systems and blockchains is most often mediated through trusted third parties. This reintroduces the inherent weaknesses of the traditional trust based financial models into the realm
of peer-to-peer digital currencies. In many cases this is no direct threat to the usage and trade
of these currencies. Yet at the same time the different implementations of digital cash remain
isolated from eachother, other than their exchange value being calculated relative to the Bitcoin
on centralized orderbooks. This exposes these currencies to price manipulation strategies that
have the potential to drain value from these markets[3].
What is needed is a hybrid asset and transfer system utilizing a modular and standardized
peer-to-peer platform to replace the trust model. A loosely coupled system[4] allowing any
two willing parties to transact assets cross-blockchain with each other, without the need for a
trusted third party. Transaction methods that have no systemic boundaries and can operate
cross-blockchain and intersystemic, and may thus tie different value systems together. Through
hybrid assets, loosely coupled financial systems create a cryptosphere that is immune to MITM
(man-in-the-middle) intermediary control by trusted parties and stabilizes crypto-economies by
enabling the value of smaller markets to be transferred into hybrid assets in the event of network
destabilization. In this paper, we propose a solution to the digital economy diaspora using a
peer-to-peer, distributed, inter-systemic and inter-blockchain exchange server to mediate the
transfer of value between digital currency systems.

2

Inter-Blockchain Transactions

We define a hybrid asset as a blockchain-agnostic set of tokens[5] allocated on multiple digital
value exchanges or multiple blockchains. The asset may gain a form of inherent value if its
issuer decides to prove the asset’s contextual value by either proof-of-burn[6] or proof-of-stake[7].
Asset holders on the hybrid network have either issued the asset themselves, or have obtained
it on a decentralized asset exchange. Our proposed network daemon (hybridd) ’glues’ cryptoassets and coins together by passing around datasets or tables - utilizing a FIFO (first-infirst-out) blockstream for sharing and verifying data - that contain identification information
about each invidual blockchain-based asset, and rulesets that govern their relationship to form
a hybrid asset. This allows for the creation of assets that have the flexibility to pass their
value from blockchain to blockchain, or system to system. An owner may transfer an asset to
another blockchain by cryptographically proposing a transaction to which any other peer on the
hybridd network may respond. To make these kinds of transactions possible, an allocator node
on the network must have allocated a certain amount of assets or coins to be used for interblockchain transactions. Information about allocators that hold such amounts is shared through
the network, and constitutes a dynamic POA (proof-of-allocation) table for each network node.
Communication between exchanging peers goes through an anonymous swarm of nodes that
act as an escrow for the network. The nodes in this group use Haystackcryptography to ensure
impartial activity as a swarm or hive. Explained in simple terms haystack works as follows.
Both the allocator of a transaction (Alice) and the initiator (Bob) receive public addresses
from a swarm escrow (we will call this group Cipher). Cipher makes available a multitude of
public keys created by each individual member of the swarm. These keys form multisignature
2

transaction keys[8] when combined. For a more detailed description of this mechanism, see
section 10.
Swarm
Alice

Peer

Peer

Peer

Peer

Public Key
Private Key

1

Send pub keys to Alice

2

Alice combines private keys to create deposit address.

3

Alice sends funds to [this] address

4

Swarm confirms transaction.

Public Key

Bob

Private Key
5

Swarm sends private keys to Bob.

6

Bob combines private keys to create access key.

Public Key
This schema shows an
example of an escrowed 1way transaction.

Private Key

Public Key
Private Key

SWARM actions are cloned over secondary and tertiary
groups to ensure fallback in case of node failure

3

Meta Server

To be able to integrate technically incompatible value models and peer-to-peer blockchains,
we must take the approach of creating a peer-to-peer meta server that loosely couples current digital value systems on a high level, and makes trusted third parties unnecessary. This
meta-structure should provide hooks to which abstract concepts of digital value systems and
blockchain technologies can be connected and integrated. Modular and open extensions facilitate the implementation of different kinds of hybrid value systems in pluggable modules to unify
the overlapping functionalities of different blockchains and ledgerless systems.
The meta-server networking daemon (hybridd) must use a concise and practical encrypted
communications protocol and functions modularly on top of existing anonymous routing networks such as, for example, TOR[9], I2P[10], or GNUnet[11], using their networks as a transport.
This makes it more difficult to trivially identify individual node IP addresses, and makes NAT
and firewall traversal easier. Peer ID’s and their public keys are shared among peers as data in
a distributed hash table[12]. Each PeerID is subject to a lease, and the entries of the peertable
are intermittently verified by the participants in the network and timestamped.

3

hybridd

hybridd

hybridd

hybridd

TOR / I2P

hybridd meta server
CounterParty
BTC

4

XCP

Assets

NXT AE
NXT

Assets

Ethereum
MST

Assets

Invictus
PTS

Coin X

DAC's

Proof-of-Allocation

To make sure peers are able to determine the viability of a transaction before initiating one,
we will need to use a proof-of-allocation (POA) table. To ensure the information in this table
is correct, peers perform ledger auditing and verification when they have compatible active
modules to access the blockchain or system on which the allocated amount is recorded. The
POA table can be interpreted by individual nodes to ensure which transaction combinations
are possible and viable, and which peers are eligible for transaction.

In the example you will notice there are four addresses holding the asset STORMWIND ,
according to the POA table. Each node with access to NXT-AE (NXT) and CounterParty
(XCP) blockchains is able to verify the allocated amount of assets specified in the table. By
combining the information from a local database, a node can deduct that in this example the
4

asset STORMWIND has an allocation of 96,425 on the NXT blockchain and 49,500 on the XCP
blockchain. The total proof-of-allocation amount would in this case be simply 145,925 units.

XCP
5

NXT

Network

The meta-server can theoretically bootstrap the network over any existing darknet. As previously mentioned, we will use TOR as our example. The bootstrapping process would be as
follows:
1. New nodes consult their latest PeerID table to connect to 8 other peers
2. Each node contacts the oldest peers of its PeerID table to determine their status
3. Each node verifies the POA table where possible using its extensions for connecting to
other blockchains
4. When a node mediates as an escrow, it verifies the transacting peers, mediates the transaction and updates the POA table
5. Each node updates its peers with its latest PeerID and POA tables
6. Nodes accept other PeerID and POA tables, verify and merge them with their own
7. Tables are sorted and pruned and only diffs of the data are shared with other peers
Essentially the meta server provides an access and control communications layer on top of
existing blockchains, or light-clients. This means hybridd can be run on full blockchains or
connect to API’s for value transfer. Whatever the user prefers and has resources for. In the
case of enough storage space, access to blockchains would be preferred. The following figure
shows an example layout of how hybridd could be bootstrapped into the networks.
As the figure implies, the possibilities for inter-blockchain transactions opens a plethora of
decentralized trading options and asset combinations. Competitive crypto-platforms become
cooperative economic ecosystems in which users and communities have freedom to innovate
indiscriminately. Large changes to individual blockchains or RPC API’s can be adapted to by
the hybridd network simply by rewriting one of its extensions, whether concerning high-level
transacting or low-level atomic cryptography. Smaller, declining cryptocurrencies can be bound
together in hybrid assets giving survivability and exchange flexibility to these coins.
5

6

Incentive

In a transaction we have an initiator and a responder. Responders, more aptly called allocators,
are network participants and asset holders who have allocated their assets for trading. Mining
Bitcoin has seen an incredibly fast-paced erosion of profitability[13] in 2014. Also the mining
of other cryptocurrencies is currently yielding declining profits over time. This poses a threat
to the existance of these cryptocurrencies, as long as the incentive to add hashing power or be
a node in the network continually diminishes. To encourage network participation in cryptoeconomies, we may need to find other incentive models next to mining for people to run their
own wallet clients. Proof-of-stake is one such incentive model. We cannot pretend this solves
the problem in its entirety, however, and we must take heed to continue working on proper
solutions to this problem. Alternatively, in the hybridd network participating as an allocator
yields rewards.
When initator Alice starts a transaction, the amount of assets she receives from allocator
Bob will always be a little less than the amount she sends. In this way the allocator has an
incentive to support the liquidity of the market and survivability of the network. The ratio
for conversion is yet to be defined, but for now defaults to: 1N : 0.999N . The allocator
retains a small amount, and thus is rewarded for providing Alice with an instant migration
of her assets between systems. The costs of conversion are default very low: between 0.1%
and 0.2%, or the lowest possible denomination of value in a specific asset. Costs of conversion,
however, can also be set to another amount by the network, to define an autonomously organized
context for optimal liquidity. This should make large transactions relatively inexpensive, while
microtransactions are also decentrally regulated to avoid abuse on the network.
The more allocators appear on the network, the more competition they have amongst eachother to be chosen for a transaction, lowering the incentive for popular coins, while at the
same time attracting allocators to abandoned blockchains. This balances out the amount of
allocators between systems, yet still brings in enough responders to keep the network active as
a whole and its assets liquid. Perhaps, for instance, an allocator may be able to provide services
for some blockchains, but not for others. If there are a great amount of allocators for the Bitcoin
blockchain, but only a few for NXT, the Bitcoin allocators will relatively be less rewarded and
the NXT allocators more rewarded for their services over time. This balances out the incentive
towards individual services, and their supply and demand for individual blockchains.

7

Unified Asset Descriptor

Information about hybrid assets is passed around the network in signed arrays called unifiedasset-descriptors (UAD). They contain the combined asset ID’s, minimum and maximum cost of
conversion, bcrypt sums thereof, further descriptive information, and are signed by the creator
of the hybrid asset. This makes it possible for individual nodes to verify that an asset cannot
be hijacked by anyone other than the issuer. Based on the existence of a signed unified asset
descriptor, the lease of a PeerID in the shared table is periodically renewed.
Certain aspects of a UAD can be changed, while other things cannot. Linked assets may
not be removed from a UAD once added for over 48 hours to protect the stakeholders of a
hybrid asset. Adding new assets to become part of the hybrid, however, is not prohibited. This
makes it possible for a hybrid asset to evolve and become part of more blockchains at a point
in time beyond its inception. The description of a hybrid asset may also be changed to reflect
intelligible updates to the asset’s constitution.
Changes to an asset are temporarily recorded and buffered in a FIFO blockstream with
reserved active data space and at least several historic revisions. This gives possibilities to
6

revert the asset changes to previous states if necessary. Again, decoupling an internal asset
from the UAD is only possible within 48 hours of committing the change. A small blockstream
keeps the meta-server light enough for anyone with several gigabytes of diskspace to make use of
it. Downloading multiple blockchains on one computer may be more than enough of a challenge
for an average user. Let’s not make the pain any worse.

8

Cross-Blockchain Distributed Autonomous Organizations

Many crypto-asset and cryptocurrency teams claim to have a working platform for distributed
autonomous organizations (DAO), however, the most flexible and powerful platforms for this
seem currently (2014.12.09) to be Ethereum, Counterparty and NXT. Many other platforms
rely on rudimentary scripting to give a minimal service level of distributed autonomy.
In itself hybridd contains no platform for DAO operations. Instead we want to facilitate
the efforts that are already available to us on other blockchain platforms. Considering another
option would be to create an Ethereum extension to tap into the distributed power of its DAO
platform. An Ethereum contract could then autonomously make decisions and relay the results
back into the hybrid assets blockstream to create cross-blockchain services.
Extending into DAO territory can also be done on other platforms. DAO constructs could be
combined to form inter-distributed autonomous organizations (IDAO). This, however, depends
largely on the motivations of module developers. In any case, reinventing the wheel would
be a waste of time and resources, while combining the power of both hybrid assets and any
truly IDAO enabled platform leverages the possibilities of both, and can make DAO’s truly
cross-blockchain without relying on a trusted party.

9

Value and Allocation Theory

The transfer of actual blocks between blockchains is cryptographically not feasible, because
blocks blockchain generally only reference back to the blockchain itself and not an external data
source. Even if it were possible, it would be cumbersome and impractical to implement, since
cryptocurrency systems and other accounting systems are often incompatible. This means that
value cannot be transferred between blockchains and ledgerless systems effectively, except by
means of informational transfer. This mode of transfer is often seen in modern accounting, and
much of the allocation methodologies therein originally stem from the early medieval system
of Hawala[14]. We must attempt to create an allocation method that is generic enough - like
accounting and/or Hawala - to enable wide compatibility between diverse systems.
When issuing a hybrid asset we must take into account the necessary allocation overhead to
ensure the assets are liquid and transferrable to other systems and blockchains. This overhead
may have the effect of inflating the price of the asset, however, as more allocators enter the
market the opposite may also be true. Let’s do a little contemplation on value and allocation
to anticipate the effects of allocation reliance and resulting behaviour of market participants in
more extreme market conditions.

7

If part of a hybrid asset becomes scarce in the market, it could theoretically become subject
to deflation on any of its host blockchains. For example: if we issue the hybrid asset APPLES
on NXT-AE, Ethereum and Counterparty, and are looking to ensure at least 30% allocation,
we need enough incentive for participants in the network to allocate such an amount. The
incentive is nominally provided by the maximum percentual cost of conversion by the asset
issuer, and – in most cases – provides enough allocators for cross-blockchain liquidity, because
of the incentive mechanism.
As long as prices on separate blockchains remain tied to common market ranges, allocations
should autonomously balance out because of the effect of demand and supply in the markets.
However, if for some reason many holders of a hybrid asset choose to exit one of the individual
host platforms and flee into another, this may create an imbalance in price for the asset between
chains. Also the mass-abandonment of a host platform by users could effectively cause the
perceived value of the asset on that specific platform to become unstable. In such extreme
circumstances allocation resources could be exhausted.
Usually allocation service providers in the hybridd network will have enough incentive to
keep on staking more allocated funds in order to return the market to balance. Perhaps some
may seek to repair the allocation shortage by trading over other exchanges; thereby taking some
risk to reap profits. Additionally, a shortage of allocators will make for increased profits among
the few that are left. These will attempt to process all transactions that now have no place to
be handled elsewhere.
Our thought experiment makes evident the hybrid assets ecosystem invites participants
to become allocators that balance our supply and demand, thereby creating a self-regulated
decentralized market.

10
10.1

Haystack Transactions
Overview

Multisignature transactions use private and public keys. These keys are correlated cryptographic numbers which can be added or multiplied. In a multisignature transaction a public
key corresponding to a private key, is simultaneously the sum of multiple public keys that are
directly correlated to multiple private keys that also form the correlating private key when
added up.
In a haystack transaction the public keys generated by the swarm are sent around to all
members of the swarm, and also to Alice and Bob. Every transaction participant collects these
multisignature keys and combines them to form escrow addresses to which Alice and Bob are to
send their funds. As soon as the transactions are done the funds of Alice and Bob will be stored
8

on public keys to which no party has access. Each individual in the swarm has only part of the
entire private key combination, and Alice and Bob neither have a way of knowing the private
key they need to redeem these funds. Their value is effectively locked on the network, until the
swarm decides to release the corresponding private keys by way of a decentralized consensus
mechanism. This only happens after the swarm has verified and confirmed the transactions
of Alice and Bob on the blockchain, and releases corresponding private multisignature keys to
Alice and Bob to enable them to redeem the value they are entitled to.

Further research is being done into the security of this method of exchange. Currently the
approach proves to be pragmatic, due to the fact that the private keys needed by Alice and
Bob can be released to them only after the confirmation of their transactions. Yet at the same
time they cannot be used by the escrow swarm (Cipher) to influence the transaction itself. In
case of a defector or saboteur node within the swarm there exists a deduplication method to
make sure any individual peer cannot hold a private key hostage and thus effectively burn the
escrowed funds. In that case another member of the swarm can release enough information to
recreate a missing private key. This information cannot be used, however, to recreate the entire
multisignature key by one individual member of the swarm alone.
The anonymous third party has no influence on the value of the exchange being done between
the two exchanging parties, except for verifying, and releasing the transactions of both peers.
In case of failure (a node member of Cipher drops offline) or a timeout, both Alice and Bob
receive any necessary keys from failover peers, as the swarm employs deduplication to ensure
the haystack transaction can be completed.

11

Guarantor Transactions

Some platforms may never support multisignature transactions. Take for instance some of the
dying cryptocurrencies that have recently considerably dropped in value and hashingpower.
Swapping value between these systems would seem impossible without using a trusted third
party. However, by using a guarantor transaction we can make impossible for allocator Alice to
cheat on a transaction without being punished for it by the swarm. This type of transaction is
also referred to as a moderated non-multisignature block-chain transaction.
To solve the dilemma of not having multisignature transactions at our disposal, we make
use of a guarantor transaction method to give both transacting parties enough incentive to play
out a transaction fairly. Before such a transaction can take place, the allocator is summoned by
the swarm to place a deposit on a separate, multisignature capable block-chain. This deposit
9

is more valuable than the amount being transacted, and the swarm holds it in escrow until the
transaction on the other blockchains is finished. On success, the deposit is sent back to the
allocator. In the event of foul play, the private key to this amount is sent to the wronged party.
This would cause the allocator more loss than gain, and gives a strong incentive to play fair.
This transaction method should only be used as a fallback, since it can certainly be more
easily exploited than a multisignature transaction. As blockchains always have some delay
before payments are confirmed, Cipher can monitor to see if both parties have sent funds to
eachother. The slowest blockchain determines when both transactions have been broadcast into
the networks. The guarantor transaction method will make it undesirable for the allocator to
sabotage transaction, and gives a form of insurance to the initiating client, but we deem it an
inferior method compared to a multisignature haystack transaction.
Notation for this work is to be expanded upon.

12

Conclusion

We have proposed a decentralized network transaction system for hybrid assets and decentralized
transactions without relying on trusted third parties. Initially we defined decentralized assets,
and described the threat of isolated cryptocurrencies and blockchains, with only centralized
actors for exchanging value between these systems. To solve this, we proposed a peer-to-peer
network operating over darknets to enable users to transact value across blockchains and value
systems.
By using multisignature transactions as a cryptographically secure method, advanced cryptography technology can be used for secure cross-blockchain transactions. In case of value
systems without multisignature support, we have the possibility to fall back to transactions
using the haystack transaction method. The network is self-balancing, anonymized and robust,
using threshold cryptography for swarm escrow functionality. Nodes share information about
hybrid assets across the network. Nodes can leave and rejoin the network at will, sharing proofof-allocation tables containing data about the allocations and capabilities of each individual
node. Value allocation and transactions are automatically managed by the allocating nodes,
hybrid assets have a one-on-one inter-blockchain value definition, and prices for transacting
value, supply and demand are decentrally market driven.

10

13

References

References
[1] “Counterparty” http://www.devtome.com/doku.php?id=counterparty.
[2] “Opentransactions”
2014.

http://opentransactions.org/wiki/index.php?title=About,

[3] “Only Bitcoin will Survive” http://www.panture.com/only-bitcoin-will-survive/,
2014.
[4] “How EDA Extends SOA and Why It Is Important” http://soa-eda.blogspot.nl/2006/
11/how-eda-extends-soa-and-why-it-is.html, 2006.
[5] “What
Are
ColoredCoins?”
what-are-coloredcoins/.

http://coloredcoins.org/about/

[6] “Proof of Burn.” https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Proof_of_burn.
[7] “What Proof of Stake Is and Why It Matters” http://bitcoinmagazine.com/6528/, 2013.
[8] “Multisig:
The Future of
multisig-future-bitcoin, 2014.

Bitcoin”

http://bitcoinmagazine.com/11108/

[9] “TOR Project: Anonymity Online” https://www.torproject.org/.
[10] “The Invisible Internet Project” https://geti2p.net/en/.
[11] “GNU’s Framework for Secure and Peer-to-Peer Networking” https://gnunet.org/.
[12] “Distributed Hash Table” https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_hash_table.
[13] “On the Longest Chain Rule and Programmed Self-Destruction of Crypto Currencies”
http://arxiv.org/abs/1405.0534, 2014.
[14] “Informal Funds Transfer Systems: An Analysis of the Hawala System” http://www.
johnfwilson.net/resources/Hawala+Occasional+Paper+_3.24.03_.pdf, 2003.

11

