Lykke Exchange: Architecture, First Experiences and Outlook
White paper

Abstract
Lykke Corp is a FinTech company based in Zurich that has launched the first global marketplace for all
asset classes and instruments, using the Colored Coin protocol on blockchain. The paper explains the
architecture of the exchange and first use cases. We discuss how the exchange will evolve over time. We
explore the macroeconomic benefits of the new distributed ledger technology (DLT). The Lykke
exchange operates similar to JAVA in the sense that it is compatible with any type of blockchain;
marketplace was first developed on blockchain of Bitcoin, but is currently being expanded to Ethereum.
Every financial instrument can become a listed security on the blockchain in the form of a digital token,
through the so-called Colored Coin protocol. Colored coins follow the idea of ''coloring'' a specific
Bitcoin - the issuer guarantees to hand out the underlying assets to the person, who returns the colored
coin. For example, the Federal Reserve (FED) can issue a colored coin in the same way as it prints paper
money; it would take a fraction of a Bitcoin and then insert the ''I Owe You'' statement of the FED, like a
regular bank note. The same mechanism can be used for any other financial claim. Colored coins are
different in nature than cryptocurrencies, because they have a specific issuer and are backed by a real
financial asset.
Reporting of colored coins in traditional banking software systems, such as bookkeeping and risk
management is straightforward, because every colored coin can include an International Securities
Identification Number (ISIN), thus can be treated as any other financial instrument, fully compatible with
existing back-office systems. Financial institutions can create colored coins for existing financial products
and gradually move business processes to blockchain. They can operate the old and the new systems in
parallel and switch over to the new system at their own pace. In the new system, interest rate payments
are second by second, improving liquidity provision.
Lykke has launched the exchange initially for the main currencies, the Lykke coin (shares of Lykke) and
started two innovative projects: colored coins for music rights and colored coins for CO2 certificates.
Perspective asset classes include futures & options on digital assets, crowdfunded loans for retail and
private equity financing for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (SME), contracts for difference, zero
coupon bonds and other fixed income, natural capital bonds and more.
Lykke Exchange and all its tools and services are open source; the transparency of technology is ideal for
research. The paper provides a high level overview of the DLT, exchange architecture and reports on
initial experiences. The paper concludes with a research agenda and technological roadmap.

1

1. Introduction
The financial system architecture has grown organically. Over the past forty years, individual steps of the
workflow of financial transactions have been computerized; the business process remained unchanged, as if
processing continued to be manual. Delivery and settlement of transaction is batch based and occurs with a time
delay of two and more days and does not happen at the time of the trade. The outcome is a convoluted banking
architecture, a pile of spaghetti. Every bank has its own bookkeeping system and is an island from an audit point
of view, where verification of trades is cumbersome and prone to errors. This regime contributes to a high degree
of fragmentation and uncertainty in the market, multiplication of risk factors, high transaction costs for financial
assets and lack of liquidity and transparency in financial markets.
In attempt to rewire the current financial system Lykke builds a global Internet exchange, where all financial
instruments will be traded and exchanged against each other, whatever their asset class or the size of transaction.
Every financial instrument will be a listed security in the form of a digital token (a so-called colored coin1) and
all transactions will be logged in a universally accessible distributed ledger, a decentralized notary service that
ensures immediate global consensus about completed transactions and asset ownership. Like the Internet itself,
the ledger is not controlled by a single entity, but an emergent phenomenon consisting of its participants. Trades
will be settled and validated immediately; processing will be digital and transaction costs will be minuscule. The
ledger includes a wallet, so every owner of a digital coin has his own private key protecting his ownership. There
will be an intraday interest rate market and yield curve. Market participants will be able to buy and sell colored
coins of different issuers and change counterparty risk at any time. The number of traded financial instruments
will grow exponentially, transaction volumes will skyrocket and liquidity will be ample.
Lykke aims to become the global marketplace and establish itself as the backbone of a new and highly
sophisticated banking architecture that is not plagued by the deficiencies of the present system. This paper
introduces the architecture of Lykke Exchange and provides the details on the first 2 months of trading in a beta
mode.

2. Distributed ledger technology overview
This chapter provides an overview over what distributed ledger technology can and cannot do in comparison to a
traditional software architecture. It also compares different variants of DLT and compares them to Bitcoin,
which is the oldest and most popular implementation.

What is DLT?
In abstract terms, distributed ledger is a way to find a consensus among a multitude of servers in the absence of
mutual trust. Most DLT variants follow a proof-of-work protocol, which provides strong economic incentives for
contributing to the network security (mining). The largest distributed ledger currently in operation is the Bitcoin
blockchain. The hardware cost to match the computing power that currently secures the Bitcoin blockchain is
likely in the triple-digit millions, if not higher.
1

Colored coins is a software protocol to specify terms and conditions attached to a particular Bitcoin or smaller Bitcoin
increment. In analogy to financial securities issued as paper certificates, Bitcoin or a small increment is used as a kind of
paper to specify additional terms and conditions.

2

A distributed ledger is fundamentally based on publicly announcing every transaction, thus allowing anyone
listening to verify and track the balances of every other network participant. Whenever Alice wants to transfer 3
Bitcoins (or whatever currency that ledger supports) to Bob, she creates an according transaction, signs it and
publicly announces it. From now on, everyone knows that Alice has 3 Bitcoins less and Bob has 3 Bitcoins
more. This is all there is to it. All other complications such as mining stem from the problem of ensuring the
existence of a reliable public transaction archive and that everyone agrees on which transactions have actually
happened in what order.
Bitcoin itself and most Bitcoin clones rely on proof-of-work to secure their blockchain. The idea behind proofof-work is to increase the cost of an attack by letting the majority of the computing power in the network build
the blockchain. A sustained brute-force attack would require a majority of computing power in the Bitcoin
network. As proof-of-work comes with an immense amount of “wasted” computing power, “proof-of-stake” has
been proposed as an alternative. However, some argue that this approach is fundamentally flawed and so far,
attempts at creating proof-of-stake based ledgers have had mixed success.
When measuring security as the USD-cost of an attack, the most secure distributed ledger currently in existence
is the Bitcoin blockchain. There are alternative cryptocurrencies that add security in principle thanks to certain
tweaks. Litecoin, for example, uses a hashing algorithm that makes it harder to create specialized mining chips.
Ethereum follows a plan to discourage a professionalization in mining and switch to the Proof-of-Stake
consensus model. But the sheer amount of computing power securing the Bitcoin blockchain dwarfs the effect of
those tweaks. One cannot rule out that other cryptocurrencies succeed at taking the lead security-wise in the
medium term future, but for now, the Bitcoin blockchain remains the most secure platform to build on.

DLT vs. Distributed database
Open distributed ledger is a great platform to build other services on top, as it is an independent technology
without any vendor lock-in or other entity behind it that might abuse it one day to further their strategic agenda.
Examples of other such decentralized technologies that serve as a platform for others to build on are Linux,
Email, or the Internet. A distributed ledger should be the technology of choice for projects that benefit from high
inter-operability and versatility in use.
As soon as the involved parties can be trusted, there are usually more efficient solutions than a distributed ledger.
When the main issue is unreliable hardware that can otherwise be trusted, the Paxos algorithm is typically used.
This is what Google does in order to provide reliable services with commodity hardware. Then, there are a
number of database solutions that can be the most efficient in principle but require highly reliable hardware and
also complete trust in the operator. Decentralization comes at a cost.

3

The power of the Bitcoin platform
Open platform technologies can unleash enormous powers, which would not materialize in a centralized setup.
The classic example is the Internet, which thrives thanks to its open architecture and which has quickly outrun
all alternative approaches (e.g. the French Minitel). Another example is Linux, which serves as an operating
system for the majority of servers in the Internet. Its main advantage is the fact that a company can commit to
using it without becoming dependent on a potential competitor. A third example is the email protocol, which is
being used to send billions of messages every day. Email would never have flourished to the same extent if it
was directly controlled by a company. Similarly, Bitcoin is often seen as the open platform for finance.
Originally, Bitcoin was most popular among cypherpunks and cryptoanarchists. To this day, Bitcoin has a
significant number of proponents from that background, who love Bitcoin for its libertarian philosophy and who
cherish it as digital gold. Driven by a vast inflow of venture capital, Bitcoin is of gaining broader traction among
early adopters whose enthusiasm stems more from Bitcoin’s usefulness and versatility than from its technical
brilliance.
Since 2014 Bitcoin saw unprecedented inflows of venture capital. It is one of a number of growing startups that
have each raised venture capital in the double digit millions. While most Bitcoin startups are profit driven with a
clear plan for generating revenue, Blockstream which recently raised 21 million is a remarkable exception.
Unlike other Bitcoin startups, Blockstream aims at improving the Bitcoin infrastructure itself - without obvious
financial benefit. Its investors argue that there is huge value in being able to help shaping the future of the
Bitcoin protocol and being at the forefront of Bitcoin development.
The most important metrics for Bitcoin traction is the number of transactions per day, which is currently
approaching 200’000, as illustrated in figure 1.2

Figure 1: Bitcoin transactions per day (7-day average)
2

https://blockchain.info/charts/n-transactions?daysAverageString=7&timespan=all#

4

Another interesting metric is the amount of computing power supporting the network, which currently
approaches 1’600’000 terahash/s3 (see figure 2).

Figure 2: Computing power supporting the Bitcoin network (7-day average), TH/s
(an average PC has about 0.01 GH/s, a specialized mining hardware up to 14 TH/s)4
Given the price estimates of the current mining hardware5, it would cost around 250-300 million USD in
hardware to acquire enough computing power to dominate the Bitcoin network.
The Bitcoin exchange rate peaked in autumn 2013 somewhat above 1150 USD, and now meanders around 600
USD. As currently 1800 new Bitcoins are mined daily, an inflow of more than 1 million USD per day is
necessary just to hold the price at its current level, which is high, but obviously not unrealistic.

3

https://blockchain.info/charts/hash-rate?daysAverageString=7&timespan=all#
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Mining_hardware_comparison
5
https://www.bitmaintech.com/productDetail.htm?pid=0002016052907243375530DcJIoK0654
4

5

Figure 3: Bitcoin exchange rate, USD
Initially, enthusiasts and hobbyists with desktop PCs and later graphics cards equipped with parallelized chip
architecture did Bitcoin mining. Today, Bitcoin mining has become a professional endeavor, with customdesigned chips and a value chain of specialized services. Hardware manufacturers such as Bitmain Technologies
or BitFury design and manufacture specialized ASIC chips. The miners operate the hardware - typically in
locations with low electricity costs and sell the generated computing power to mining pools, which in turn
redistribute the freshly minted coins and earned transaction fees back to the miners.
Bitcoin is valued 10 times as high as the second most highly valued crypto currency – Ethereum – thereby
clearly taking the lead (table 1). The value of a currency strongly depends on the number of participants,6 which
in turn attracts more participants, leading to a network effect. Typically, communication technologies such as the
telephone or WhatsApp and social networks such as Facebook share this network effect, which makes competing
with the number one an uphill battle. Thus, Bitcoin has a significant first-mover-advantage, which plays out
threefold:
● The more users there are, the more useful Bitcoin becomes, as there are more places to spend Bitcoin
and counterparties to exchange Bitcoin with, attracting even more users.
● Currencies require trust, but trust can only be built over time, thus - everything else equal - giving the
oldest currency a natural edge over its competitors.
● The more volume there is the more transaction fees there are, attracting more miners and making the
network more secure, which in turn again attracts additional users and volume.
With currencies that serve as a store of wealth, there is an additional lock-in insofar as it is takes effort to transfer
that wealth into other currencies. Thus, there are multiple effects in place that make it very hard to dethrone
Bitcoin.

6

This effect is often referred to as Metcalfe’s Law: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metcalfe%27s_law

6

#

Icon

Cryptocurrency

Market Capitalization in USD

1

Bitcoin

9,470,642,364

2

Ethereum

998,585,632

3

Ripple

220,037,515

4

Steem

190,354,108

5

Litecoin

178,558,602

6

Ethereum Classic

147,470,618

7

Dash

69,298,087

8

NEM

50,984,280

9

MaidSafeCoin

44,534,778

10

Nxt

30,766,403

Table 1: Cryptocurrencies by Market Capitalization7

Chapter Summary
Bitcoin is one of those technologies in which people see the potential to disrupt the world. It illustrates the power
that open platforms can unfold. There are various competitors and clones, but none of them comes close to the
popularity and success of Bitcoin. The many unsuccessful attempts of creating competing coins show that one
should, whenever feasible, ride the wave and build on top of Bitcoin instead of creating one’s own proprietary
ledger. By building on top of Bitcoin, one can leverage the power if its blockchain, which has been continuously
running for over five years and amassed computing power worth hundreds of millions, thereby enabling a lean
business model, that stands on the shoulders of a giant.

7

The total value of all coins in circulation at current prices is often referred to as market capitalization. Updated as of
10/08/2016. Source: http://coinmarketcap.com/

7

3. Colored coins exchange architecture
In this chapter we present the architecture of an exchange for colored coins. By colored coins we mean issuerbacked securities on the Bitcoin blockchain. Orders are collected and matched by a semi-trusted exchange.
Matched orders are settled on the Bitcoin blockchain, where each successful trade between parties appears as a
set atomic colored coins swap transaction. Unfilled and expired orders are discarded. The exchange does not take
possession of the traded coins, but needs to be trusted to match trades correctly. Assuming a basic level of trust
in the trader - which could for example be established by providing collateral - trading can take place as fast as
the communication between a trader and an exchange permits, with a subsequent settlement on the blockchain.
Exchanges for cryptocurrencies can be organized with a different degree of centralization. Typically, centralized
exchanges are much more efficient, whereas decentralized exchanges are more secure as they require less trust in
the exchange. Due to their higher efficiency and simplicity, most volume is currently traded on centralized
exchanges such as BTC China, Bitstamp or Bitfinex.8 A trader on such an exchange must entrust all assets in his
trading account to the exchange. History shows that this is not without risk, with the most famous examples
being the collapse of MtGox (more than 600’000 Bitcoins disappeared) and the most recent hacking of Bitfinex
(120’000 stolen Bitcoins). Exchanges such as Bitcoin.de and LocalBitcoins are more decentralized and restrict
themselves to organize trades and offer escrow services, but let the traders execute the actual trade bilaterally,
whereas traders on LocalBitcoins often even meet physically. This naturally limits the achievable speed of
trading to the speed of the underlying payment system (e.g. SEPA or moving bank notes). These exchanges can
achieve a much higher trading frequency without having to resort to client deposits by restricting themselves to
cryptocurrencies that can be exchanged instantly. Examples of such exchanges or whole cryptocurrency systems
that include built-in decentralized exchanges are Omni, Counterparty, and BitsharesX - none of which achieved
the same commercial success yet as the aforementioned centralized exchanges. These exchanges frequently try
to even decentralize the matching of trades, which is problematic as it is fundamentally hard to enforce rules in a
decentralized system, especially when timing is crucial. For the design of our exchange, we opt for a system with
centralized matching of trades, but with direct bilateral exchange of assets, trying to combine the best of both
worlds. One should also note that, when trading particular colored coins or any other issuer-backed asset, there is
exposure to a centralized point of failure anyway, namely the issuer.

Design Considerations
We follow the design principles of simplicity and minimal risk. Thus, we prefer proven systems with known
shortcomings that are good enough for our purposes over theoretically better systems. The best validated
distributed ledger technology is clearly Bitcoin, with a blockchain spanning back more than five years.
Unfortunately, the Bitcoin network only supports one asset, the Bitcoin. One way to overcome this would be to
create an adapted version and to operate a separate blockchain that runs that adapted protocol. With a separate
blockchain, one cannot benefit from all the computing power securing the Bitcoin network, calling for further
adaptions, such as abandoning proof-of-work (majority of computing power says which transactions settle) for
proof-of-stake (majority of coin wealth says which transactions settle) or something entirely different. The path
of building a custom ledger has been chosen by a number of cryptocurrencies, such as Ethereum. This leads to
the risks of over-engineering and stepping into uncharted territories, which are both hard to control.

8

Market Overview, bitcoincharts.com

8

Thus, instead of creating yet another distributed ledger, we decided to make use of the Colored coins approach,
which builds on top of the Bitcoin blockchain. As the name suggests, colored coins follow the idea of “coloring”
a specific Bitcoin, with an issuers guaranteeing to hand out the underlying assets to whoever returns that colored
Bitcoins (or a fraction thereof). Thus, such colored coins are always linked to Bitcoins - like physical coins being
bound to a few grams of a metal that also has a value in itself and is independent of the currency value. Further
limitations are discussed in the scalability section. Current implementation of Lykke Exchange operates with
Open Asset colored coins protocol9.
The proposed exchange is positioned in between completely decentralized proposals (such as Counterparty) and
completely centralized ones (such as Bitstamp). Decentralized approaches tend to come with significant
overhead, for example by creating an entry on the blockchain for every issued order. Centralized exchanges are
much more efficient, but require the exchange to take possession over the assets of the traders as deposits, which
in many jurisdictions comes with certain regulatory duties (e.g. requiring a banking license). Our approach finds
a middle ground between those two. Only completed trades enter the blockchain, while unfilled orders are
discarded. At the same time, assets can be traded ad hoc and are directly transferred between the trading parties,
thereby letting the exchange act as a mere broker without clients’ deposits.

Involved Parties
There are three involved parties:
● Issuers issue IOUs as colored coins. These coins can represent currencies, stocks, or any other
transferable asset. An exchange can demand from the issuer to file a formal application for his coins to
be listed, but there is no technical necessity to do so. In principle, any colored coins could be traded on
an exchange - even without the consent of the issuer. The role of the issuers is passive, all they can do is
to observe completed trades as they settle on the blockchain.
● Traders possess Bitcoins or colored coins and desire to trade them for other assets. Traders typically
need to be registered with the exchange in order to establish a basic level of trust (e.g. legally or by
providing a collateral). To initiate trades, they send orders to an exchange of their choice. The traded
assets must reside on a Bitcoin address associated with the trader’s account on the exchange. Traders
primarily communicate directly with the exchange, but should also observe the blockchain to verify the
correct settlement of their trades.
● Exchanges wait for traders to send them orders and collect them in an order book. The usual order types
are supported (bid, ask, limit, etc). Matched trades are settled on the blockchain. In principle, any asset
pair can be traded, but in practice market forces will probably let a dominating currency emerge (similar
to the USD in a classical foreign exchange). There could be various competing exchanges.

High-Level Description
Traders create an order by creating and signing a collateral transaction to send x coins to the exchange, whereas x
is the amount and type of coins they intend to sell. Unlike usual transactions, this collateral transaction is not
sent to the Bitcoin network, but to the exchange instead, along with additional information about the order (type,
asset to buy, limit, etc.). The collateral transaction guarantees settlement for the matched trade in case if trader is
9

https://github.com/OpenAssets/open-assets-protocol/blob/master/specification.mediawiki

9

offline. The provided collateral transaction will never be broadcasted over the Bitcoin network if the client signs
an atomic swap transaction for the matched trade. As soon as the exchange receives a matching order containing
a second collateral transaction, the exchange creates an atomic swap transaction that sends the exchanged
amounts to the two traders and asks both traders to sign it. Broadcasting of the atomic swap transaction signed
by both traders will invalidate guarantee transactions while it is spending the same outputs. If one of the trader is
offline and not able to sign the swap transaction, the exchange uses collateral transactions and sends the
exchanged amounts to the two traders. Unfilled or cancelled orders are simply discarded.

Partial Trades
Most of the time, one of the involved orders will only be partially filled. The remaining funds are immediately
returned to the sender for resubmission of the remaining trade. For example, if trader Toni issues an order to sell
100 USD for EUR and his order is immediately matched with 80 USD worth of counter-orders, the remaining 20
USD are sent back to Toni along with the acquired EUR. Toni’s trading software then automatically creates and
signs a new order to sell the remaining 20 USD.

Matching
Lykke Exchange implements a new type of queuing system for the limit orders. The queuing system is pricespread-time dependent, because it rewards market participants for quoting two-way prices and revealing
information about their price expectation. Market participants who are confident that the price level will remain
unchanged, will offer low spreads, they will get preferential treatment and will move ahead in the queue. Highfrequency traders will not be able to extract an unfair advantage from the pending limit orders as is the case
today with price-time queuing systems that are standard. The innovation translates into improved price discovery
with lower price volatility and improved market efficiency. The price-spread-time queuing system is a major
innovation for the industry of electronic market places, which use queuing systems that are only price-time
dependent.

Multisignature Wallets
To be able to trade, traders should deposit coins into exchange. Depositing coins is not equal to trusting coins.
The exchange uses 2-of-2 multisignature address wallets to deposit trader’s coins. 2-of-2 multisignature address
requires two signatures to spend coins from it - both trader’s and exchange’s signatures.

Client

2-of -2 Multisig wallet
Client + Exchange

Exchange

Figure 4: 2-of-2 multisignature address used to deposit trader’s coins.
Two signatures are required to spend coins – both trader’s and exchange’s.
A MultiSig wallet provides the following advantages:

10



Deposit does not mean trust: The exchange cannot spend coins without the trader's key. Even if the
exchange is compromised and the exchange’s key is stolen, the trader will not lose his coins. The second
key is required to spend deposited coins.



Coins flow control: On the other hand, the exchange's signature is required for each transaction.
Deposited coins cannot be transferred outside the exchange without the exchange being aware of it.



Green nodes network: Identified clients only (KYC) are allowed to trade. A trader is able to spend
deposited coins whether for trading inside the exchange or for withdrawal. A trader cannot transfer the
coins outside the exchange green nodes network, if it's not allowed by the issuer.

Multisignature Address Safety
What happens with deposited coins if the exchange's private key is destroyed? Would the deposited coins be
frozen in the multisignature address forever? To guarantee funds recovery from the MultiSig wallet, the
exchange provides offchain refund transactions.

2-of -2 Multisig wallet
Client + Exchange

Client

Exchange

Refund Offchain
transaction
nLockTime=31d

Figure 5: Off the blockchain refund transaction is signed by the exchange.
Refund transaction will be valid after 31 days lock.
Refund transaction sends deposited coins back to the trader's private address. Once the refund transaction is
signed by the exchange and a trader, the refund can be broadcasted after 31 days. The refund transaction is
invalidated each time when the trader makes a trade that spends “refunded” outputs. The exchange generates a
new refund transaction after each new trade and sends the transaction binary file to the trader's mail. The trader
may use the refund in case of emergency.
The exchange monitors new transactions on the blockchain and detects if the valid refund transaction was
broadcasted. It is considered as withdrawal.

Scalability
Generally, all received coins can immediately be reused in a new trade. Thus, trading can be as fast as the
connection between a trader and the exchange permits (normally in the range of 10ms - 100ms). Temporarily,
the number of trades can exceed the limits given by the Bitcoin blockchain, as this just leads to a delayed
settlement. Note that the size of the collateral (or amount of trust in the trader) should cover the potential net

11

gain of the trader when unwinding the unsettled transactions. Thus, the exchange should measure that potential
net gain and block further trading in case it approaches the size of the collateral.
Upon the implementation of recent SegWit soft-fork the Bitcoin network will have a limit of about 780’000
transactions per day.10 Today, the network processes about 200’000 transactions per day.11 As soon as the
number of issued transactions hits the limit, miners will start to drop the ones with the lowest fees. As every
dropped transaction means a loss of potential revenue, they will likely push for an increase of the limit in such a
scenario. The actual technical limit according to core developer Gavin Andresen is in the range of hundreds of
millions of transactions per day.12
To mitigate capacity limit, Lightning Network13 and Micropayment channels14 are the perspective approaches.
Instead of broadcasting each single transaction on the blockchain, parties deliver coins by sending signed
transaction messages offchain with subsequent net settlement on the blockchain.

Micropayment channels approach
Micropayment channel is based on the 2-of-2 multisignature address where both parties of the channel deposit
coins into the address and communicate off the blockchain. The current balance of parties is stored as the most
recent offchain refund transaction signed by both parties spending from the multisignature address15. To make a
transfer, client sends a signed refund transaction message spending the corresponding volume of coins from the
multisignature address. The final refund transaction signed by both parties can be broadcasted when the parties
withdraw their coins.

Payment Hubs
Payment Hub acts as an intermediary for transferring money from one point to another. Traders who need to
exchange an asset in a scalable way would open micropayment channels with Payment Hubs. When one wants to
send USD coins to the exchange he/she would send coins to the USD Payment Hub using the channel, then the
hub sends its coins to the exchange using another channel. Payment Hubs cannot steal coins on the way to
exchange because of using hash lock protection16. Payment Hubs provide coins in the payment channel address
for being able to route payments effectively. Exchange sends EUR coins back to the trader using another EUR
Payment Hub that provides liquidity for the EUR coins. Issuers of coins may act as Payment Hubs to provide
transferring of the issued coins in the scalable way.

10

Depends on transaction, see also Maximum Transaction Rate on Bitcoin Wiki
https://blockchain.info/charts/n-transactions
12
https://gist.github.com/gavinandresen/e20c3b5a1d4b97f79ac2
13
http://lightning.network/docs/
14
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Contract#Example_7:_Rapidly-adjusted_.28micro.29payments_to_a_pre-determined_party
15
Bitcoin Opcode OP_CHECKSECVENCEVERIFY (BIP-0112) is available for relative lock-time on mainnet Bitcoin
blockchain from May 2016. This opcode can be used for providing revocable refund transaction for the multisignature
payment channel address. http://ozlabs.org/~rusty/ln-deploy-draft-01.pdf
16
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Lightning_Network#Hash_locks
11

12

Figure 6: Both exchange and traders have micropayment channels with Payment Hubs to be able to transfer
multiple types of coins off the blockchain. Issuer of the coins may act as Payment Hub.

Attacks
Malicious traders could prevent the settlement of a trade by issuing a competing transaction that sends the
offered coins elsewhere. Doing this is trivial as long as the order is pending and thus no transaction published but assuming that the exchange provides an option to cancel pending orders, there is no motivation to do so as it
results in the same, namely the cancellation of the order.
A malicious trader might also regret an order after it was matched and sent to the network, thus wanting to
disrupt settlement. As transactions spread quickly through the Bitcoin network, successfully issuing a competing
transaction to prevent that regretted trade would require collusion with the miner who happens to mine the next
block - something a large mining pool probably would not want to risk its reputation for as such cheating
attempts are perfectly detectable. The easy detectability also allows to automatically trigger counter-measures
such as freezing the collateral of the trader or banning the trader.
A related attack is based on transaction malleability. Transaction malleability is a weakness in the Bitcoin
protocol that allows anyone to slightly alter a transaction in ways that cause the transaction to change its id
(hash). Should the altered transaction enter the blockchain instead of the original one, already issued follow-up
transactions will be orphaned and fail as they use the original id to refer to their predecessor. The necessary
adaptations to the Bitcoin protocol to fix this are known, and implemented.
Another attack on the system could be performed by the exchange itself. If hacked or run by a malicious
operator, whoever controls the exchange could potentially take possession of all assets in all currently pending
orders. This is already much better than the risk of traditional exchanges like MtGox to misappropriate all their
clients accounts, but is still a significant risk that needs to be addressed through according security and
regulatory measures.
All the aforementioned risks pale in comparison to the counterparty risk inherent in colored coins. Regardless of
how securely the exchange is organized, an issuer of colored coins could default or misappropriate the
underlying assets. An exchange can help to alleviate this risk by only allowing the trade of coins from verified
issuers with quantifiable counterparty risk. This risk can be mitigated by diversifying coins across multiple
issuers and by swapping to coins that are deemed less risky if necessary.

13

Leveraged Trading
In order to provide leveraged trading, an intermediary service such as a bank willing to provide credit is
necessary. This is basically the same as traditional leveraged trading. Instead of directly trading on the exchange
with their own wallets, traders will transfer their assets to a managed wallet. Such a managed wallet resembles a
bank account, with the bank managing the wallet having full control over the contained assets. Like in classical
banking, orders issued by the traders go to the bank first, where they are verified, and then sent to the exchange.
The bank can then offer credit to the trader, which is added to the managed account. But as soon as the account
is not sufficiently covered any more, the margin call is issued, the assets liquidated, and outstanding credit
returned to the bank.

Current State
Lykke Exchange was developed since December 2015 and went live beta on March 2016 with wider industry
test that started in May 2016. The infrastructure consists of the following components:







Matching engine
Lykke backend (Microsoft Azure)
Blockchain of Bitcoin / Open Asset colorcore
Issuer UI (Coinprism)
Lykke Wallet app (iOS / Android)
Market making algorithms

Figure 7: Lykke Exchange high-level architecture

14

Lykke Exchange and all its tools and services are fully open source17. Total size of Lykke code in Github
repository has recently reached 1.5 million lines, with own (not-forked) code exceeding 1 million.
The development process has started as a result of the competition launched in September 2015. Three prizes
were awarded to the three submissions that were received. The proposed projects were complementary to the
design of FX platform and the asset protocol, and this helped to form a core of the Lykke team18.

Crowd-based approach to resources
The company organization is inspired by the principles that govern dynamic systems in nature, such as the
human body. Lykke implements an emergent structure, where processes are crowd-based and contributors are
incentivized with prizes in many different shapes and forms. Prize-payouts have a scaling property with many
small prizes. For example: a first prize with a payout of 400 USD, four second prizes with a payout each of 200
USD and 16 third prizes with a payout each of 100 USD at a total cost of 2800 USD. The scaling property of
prizes reward many individuals and nurture talent on a broader scale than the typical approach of just offering
one first, one second and one third prize. We successfully applied this idea in the design competition for the
exchange.
The company has a small core group of managers; they are mandated to get the processes going, fine tune
operations or have very specific technical expertise. We use the crowd process as a screening mechanism to
identify highly dedicated and gifted employees. The crowd-based management principle has to our knowledge
never been implemented as radically as envisioned for Lykke. There are, however, examples of companies and
nonprofit organizations that have followed similar management principles, such as Wikipedia, Mozilla or Open
Source Initiatives, such as Bitcoin or Eclipse. The productivity of these initiatives in terms of output relative to
cost is an indication that the crowd-based strategy may surpass expectations.

Chapter Summary
Building a secure, high-performance exchange for colored coins is technically feasible. There are a number of
trade-offs between performance and security. In a trusted environment, the highest performance is reached,
whereas a completely secure setup comes at a price of slower transactions. Both approaches can be mixed
depending on requirements. The distributed ledger technology allows to run such a cryptoexchange in a fully
transparent and open way, potentially allowing anyone to trade on it with minimal trust requirements and
providing a platform for other cryptoservices to build on. Current implementation of Lykke Exchange operates
with Open Asset colored coins protocol and 2-of-2 multisignature wallets. Lykke Exchange and all its tools and
services are fully open source.

17
18

https://github.com/LykkeCity/LykkeX
https://lykke.com/leadership.php

15

4. Lykke Exchange First Experiences and Outlook
On May 31, 2016 Lykke has launched the exchange initially for the main currencies, including US dollar, euro,
Swiss franc, British pound, Japanese yen, as well as Bitcoin and Lykke coin (shares of Lykke).
During the period between May 31 and August 10, 2016 around 500 trades were settled. The full trade log is
available on blockchain19. In total 35 accounts appeared to trade. The distribution of trading activity in log-log
scale is shown in figure 8. Most active account is a designated market maker, which processes most of the trades.

Figure 8: Distribution of trading activity on Lykke Exchange (in log-log scale). Each dot represents a trader.
To settle the asset swap transaction on the blockchain of Bitcoin, the dynamic fee is used conditional to the
Bitcoin network traffic to optimize the broadcasting time20.
The settlement time (time interval from the order matching until the first confirmation) has lognormal
distribution: ln X ~ N(-0.9787, 1.4469). See figure 9 for the empirical cumulative probability density function
and fitted curve.
The median time of the settlement is 22.5 minutes, 80% of the trades settled within 1 hour; 90% - within 2.5
hours; 99% - within 12 hours.

19
20

https://www.coinprism.info/address/anJBX5sKFK4vnbywKWE2NQa9xrvLJEqRAB2
https://bitcoinfees.21.co/api/v1/fees/recommended

16

Figure 9: Distribution of confirmation time on Lykke Exchange (in hours on log scale)
The most actively traded asset pair on Lykke Exchange at the period was BTC/USD, which accounted for 18%
of the trades; with Lykke coins standing the second most active.

Figure 10: Structure of trading activity on Lykke Exchange, % in number of trades.

17

In July two innovative projects were started: colored coins for music rights (Sheela coin) and colored coins for
biodiversity protection finance linked to CO2 certificates (Rimba Raya coin).
Pilot music rights IOU issuance was done in collaboration with Zeptagram for the song “Sheela!” from the
album “The Lifting of The Veil” recorded by Tapefly (Stim ID: 5814744 ISWC ID: T-205132833-4). Free float
of the coin is 5% for the market cap of 30’000 EUR.
Rimba Raya Biodiversity (RRB) pilot coin was issued with InfiniteEARTH that is working with the local
community in Borneo, Indonesia, to introduce sustainable forestry, build schools and hospitals, while also
supporting a critical orangutan sanctuary. Rimba Raya is one of only four global REDD+ projects to achieve a
triple gold CCB rating for Climate, Community & Biodiversity benefits21. The RRB coin is 100% backed by
REDD+ credits22. The value of RRB will fluctuate like other traded commodities. Given the ICO bulk discount,
however, RRB will likely appreciate to average institutional REDD+ pricing levels. Over the next five to ten
years, RRB could benefit from a global price on carbon, which leading economists agree is the most effective
policy response to climate change.
Perspective asset classes include:









Equity financing;
Contracts for difference (CFD);
Futures & options on digital assets;
Zero coupon bonds and other fixed income;
Natural capital assets;
Industry settlement coins;
Land and real estate;
Crowd-funded retail loans.

Chapter Summary
As once formulated by Paul Buchheit: “Bitcoin may be the TCP/IP of money”23. The money transmission
protocols will evolve and in future there will be many blockchain-based digital assets. The important component
that is missing is a global market place that enables exchange of digital assets directly without going through fiat
or crypto currencies. Lykke builds a global Internet exchange, where all financial instruments will be traded and
exchanged against each other, whatever their asset class or the size of transaction.
The first two months of operations of Lykke Exchange has shown the viability of the semi-trusted architecture
that allows a compromise between usability, liquidity and security of funds in the toxic Internet environment.

21

http://rimba-raya.com/wp-content/uploads/2015/09/InE-RRC-PressRelease-28Sept2015.pdf
Reduced Emissions from Avoided Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD+) http://www.un-redd.org/
23
Paul Buchheit, Creator of Gmail, https://twitter.com/paultoo/status/328969714283995136
22

18

We envision the following technological and business roadmap ahead:









Margin trading (Q4 2016)
Regulated retail FX (Q4 2016)
Offchain settlement scalable to 100’000+ transactions per second (Q4 2016)
Ethereum support: multisig wallets, interblockchain atomic swaps (Q1 2017)
Payment system provider (Q2 2017)
Regulated institutional FX (Q3 2017)
Fixed income products, commodities (Q3 2017)
1 billion USD average daily volume (Q4 2017)

The transparency of the blockchain technology provides unique research opportunities: the trade log has the
resolution to participants ID. Potential research directions include in particular:









empirical market microstructure of digital assets marketplace;
scaling laws and optimal market design;
intraday yield curves estimation and impact intraday interest and market liquidity and price discovery
market participants ecology and behavioral studies;
market abuse detection;
settlement finality research;
consequences for systemic risk;
macroeconomic impact of digitizing financial assets.

19

