Synergy of Advanced Financial and Industrial Technologies:
First Investment Blockchain Option
ZrCoin

Abstract
ZrCoin [1] is the world’s first investment-grade blockchain product. It is a
derivative that leverages both cutting-edge financial and industrial technologies
to manufacture and sell a highly in-demand product, synthetic zirconium dioxide
(Synth. ZrО2), which is traded on the global market of refractories.
Synth. ZrО2 has higher quality and superior physical and chemical properties than
its non-synthetic analogue, with greater purity (66% to 75%), and 2.5-3 times
greater durability, stability and persistence.
The manufacturing process employs unique and cutting-edge technologies in the
use of wastes and the resulting parameters of synthetic zirconium. It is also
completely environmentally friendly.
Decentralised direct investments in the Project will be made by purchasing ZrCoin
options. Their decentralisation should ensure the Project’s independence from
government-run companies and other large corporations.
The Project is designed to fit the ideology of a national initiative entitled ‘Clean
Country’.
The ZrCoin financial instrument will be launched on the Waves blockchain
platform [2].

Contents
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.

Definitions
Introduction – Project overview
Introduction – Green Manufacture and Economy
Project Summary – Commercial Aspects of the Project
Project Summary – Environmental Aspects of the Project
Project Summary – ZrCoin Team
Conclusion
References

Definitions
Underlying asset means an asset on which the financial derivative (option) is
based. In our case this is the product, i.e. Synth. ZrО2, and the derivative ZrCoin.
Synthetic zirconium dioxide or Synth. ZrО2 is a scarce and ultra-durable material
with high plasticity, corrosion resistance, strength, durability and stability.
Derivative or derivative financial instrument means a contract, under which the
parties are entitled and/or undertake to make certain actions in respect of the
underlying asset. The contract represents an agreement between the two parties,
whereunder they undertake or are entitled to transfer the underlying asset in the
prescribed period at the agreed price.
ZrCoin Derivative means an options contract for the sale of Synth. ZrО2 as a ZrCoin
intangible asset (see below), including an option (put option) on the buy-back of
Synth. ZrО2 in the prescribed period at the agreed price.
Crypto-economy means the social and economic relations of the digital society,
which are focused on interaction based on network protocols. Key elements of
the crypto-economy include: cryptographic tokens (cryptocurrencies), digital
assets, decentralised social security and crowdfunding systems, decentralised
management systems, self-executed ‘smart’ contracts, commercial markets for
computing resources, online trust and reputation systems, consensus algorithms,
etc.
Option means a form of derivative, i.e. a sale and purchase contract for the
underlying asset (ZrCoin in our case), whereunder the option purchaser is entitled
to purchase the asset at the agreed price within the future period stipulated in
the contract.
Initial Coin Offering or ICO means the collection of capital with the help of cryptoinvestments in the initial stage of the Project, including the use of
cryptocurrencies. Hereafter this term is referred to as the ICO.
Clean Country means a flagship national project approved by the Presidential
Council on Strategic Development and Priority Projects, to be implemented by the

Government of the Russian Federation in the coming years (2017-2025). The
purpose of the Project is to reduce environmental damage from solid domestic
waste disposal, minimise environmental risks in respect of accumulated
environmental damage, and establish an interactive information system, which
will ensure identification and liquidation of unauthorised disposal tips according
to information provided by citizens and public organizations. Estimated (total)
budget of the Project is RUR 150-200 billion, including RUR 30 billion of extrabudgetary funds [3].

Introduction – Project overview
The ongoing transition to the new technological lifestyle implies and requires
investment into the development of its constituent technologies and
modernisation of manufacturing, as well as the reorganisation of the centralised
economy.
Further development will be characterised by a combination of these two
processes – that is, breaking the structures of the technological status quo and
building the structures of the new economy. Meanwhile, existing businesses and
financial institutions will either have to adapt to the demands of the new
technological lifestyle or become obsolete.
These events are typical for both economical and social processes. Against the
background of negative sentiment, many investors are shifting towards cryptoinvestment as an alternative field of wealth growth and preservation. For our
purposes, these refer to the projects with fast payback, moderate risk, and the
availability of professional experience and support.
The global economy has a substantial demand for zirconium dioxide with greater
than 66% purity, owing to its unique physical and chemical properties. These are
required for manufacturing processes that require a high degree of durability and
stability. This is typical for such major industries as metallurgy, glass and ceramics,
and so on.
Zirconium dioxide (lat. Zirconium) has the chemical formula ZrO2 and is a
refractory material. It also features high plasticity and corrosion resistant
properties (Claproth, 1789; Berzelius, 1829; van Arkel and de Boer, 1925 and
others).
Zirconium is a structural component of alloys used in the construction of atomic
reactors. Critical elements of chemical reactors, artificial joints and prostheses are
made of Zirconium. It is used to produce high-temperature ceramics (refractory
products) and is the refractory material with the best price-quality relationship
rating.

Refractories are used in a wide range of different areas of global industry, from
metallurgy to the nuclear industry, typically requiring the retention of physicochemical properties when heated above 1600°C. Zirconium-containing
refractories are the most resistant to high-temperature impacts and can sustain
heating above 2000°C. The standard base of zirconium-containing refractories is
sand with a zirconium dioxide content exceeding 65%. This is extracted from the
earth, like any other natural raw material, has a rich content of alkaline-earth
metals and requires a great deal of expensive processing before it can be used in
refractory materials.

Introduction – Green Manufacture and Economy
The salient feature of the green manufacturing process utilised by the Project’s
founders is that it does not require the extraction of existing or new deposits of
zirconium. Instead, the process uses otherwise unmarketable products and
wastes.
Manufacturing technologies of the 21st century are developing rapidly and raw
materials’ quality should develop hand-in-hand with these. However,
manufacturers of zirconium-containing raw materials all over the world have not
made any significant technological progress for the last 20 years. This has led to
hypersaturation of the market with low-quality zirconium dioxide of natural
origin, predominantly from South Africa and Australia. This has to pass through
many purification stages to reach the standards required by modern high-quality
manufacturing.
Synthetic concentrate of zirconium dioxide. The global market of refractories
requires ever-higher quality raw materials. For this reason different
manufacturers of refractory materials have attempted to improve the quality of
their raw materials, but for the most part have failed due to the technological
complexity of the process. As a result, only a few companies in the world have
been able to establish the manufacture of synthetic refractory materials and only
two companies have been successful in the creation of synthetic concentrates of
zirconium dioxide for highly-specialised manufacturing processes of their partner
companies.
The global market of refractories therefore suffers from a huge deficit in synthetic
concentrate of widely-used zirconium dioxide, while there is more than enough
‘simple’ zirconium dioxide with 65-66% purity on the market. Unlike synthetic
zirconium dioxide the demand for zirconium dioxide of natural origins is falling,
while the demand for synthetic zirconium concentrates is tenfold higher than
available supply.
Unique technology. Our researchers have been searching for ways to extract
widely-used synthetic zirconium dioxide for more than three years. After
extensive research they have developed a technology that allows the synthesis of
zirconium dioxide concentrate, in which zircon and brazilite are entirely stable

and are not susceptible to phase transitions (increasing the chemical stability of
the generated products by 2.5-3 times), and with corundum Al2O3 present, which
increases the concentrate’s stability.
Synthetic concentrate of zirconium dioxide produced using our technology is a
unique product, which does not require the addition of any further chemical
components and allows for it to be used in refractory materials right away.
More than 10 of the largest enterprises using refractory materials in their
manufacturing processes have already appreciated the uniqueness and quality of
this synthetic concentrate of zirconium dioxide.

Project Summary
Commercial Aspects of the Project
The Project offers crowdfunded investments in the ZrCoin derivative (see
definition above), which is implemented as a financial instrument on the Waves
[2] blockchain platform and is backed by the industrial commodity (Synth. ZrО2).
A general overview of the ZrCoin Project is shown in Picture 1.

Picture 1. Overview of ZrCoin Project
The three main stages of the Project include ICO, Manufacture and Buy-Back. The
timeline of the Project (Picture 1) in stages is as follows:
1. “ICO”
May– June, 2017
Holding an ICO to purchase ZrCoin options with the use of USD, BTC and other
cryptocurrencies.
During the initial days of the ICO there will be a ‘sale’ of options at 50% discount from
the current (basic) market price of synthetic concentrate of zirconium dioxide. The
option price will increase steadily. Note: additional information will be shown in the
investor’s profile on the Project’s website [1].

The investment budget to construct a factory and launch the manufacturing
process for Synth. ZrO2 will use the funds collected during the ICO.
2. “Manufacture”
July – August, 2017: Purchase of real estate in the industrial area of
Magnitogorsk, Russia [4].
September, 2017– February, 2018: Construction of facility and production of
industrial equipment for the factory.
February, 2018: Installation and testing of industrial equipment, and launch of
new manufacturing process.
February, 2018: First sales and shipments of market-ready product (Synth. ZrО2).
3. “Buy-Back”
March, 2018
Buy-back of ZrCoin options will be made eight months after the end of the ICO in
an amount equal to not less than $400,000 per month. Investors will be also
entitled to exchange ZrCoin for the relevant physical amount of concentrate of
synthetic zirconium dioxide (underlying asset) calculated on the basis of 1 ZrCoin
= 1 kilogram of the concentrate.
Investors will additionally be able to trade ZrCoin options for the Company’s
stock, if the Company is eligible for IPO.
Main targets of crowd investment in ZrCoin commodity option:
For investors – to purchase an option with 5.5% yield (estimated average future
income per month). The purchased ZrCoin derivative will be backed by the
physical commodity, and is ‘protected’ by the value of this asset of high demand
in case of currency fluctuations.
For the community – to form an ecologically sound manufacturing process (socalled ‘green manufacture’); to develop the use of a new financial instrument and
decentralise financing of manufacturing, which the world has never seen before.
Key performance indicators for construction of the factory for the ZrCoin project
are shown in Table 1:

Table 1
Performance indicators of ZrCoin Project
Indicator description
Investment outlay (RUR thousand)*
Net present value (RUR thousand)
Internal rate of return

Value
223,950.00
2,029,000.00
213%

Investment profitability index
Payback period (by DDP) from the beginning of construction

9.75
12 months

Payback period (by DP) from the beginning of construction

11 months

* See the Project’s business plan for more detailed investment outlay [5].

As seen from the Table 1 all performance indicators comply with the approved
norms and the methods used.1
We aim to make the ZrCoin Project financially effective and viable for
implementation, according to the selected investment strategy and applied
technology. The following may be considered overall advantages of the
investment project:
1. Investment attractiveness of ZrCoin Project is high, as the information in
Table 1 explains.
2. The cornerstone business proposition for investment into the ZrCoin
Project rests on an innovative manufacturing process for Synth. ZrО2
refractories, utilising zirconium scrap and channeling profits from
investments into the futures token of the same name.
3. High environmental standards of the ZrCoin Project and green
manufacturing processes, where wastes from glass factories, silicone
cotton factories and dumps are used as raw materials. Implementation of
the project will allow for significant reduction of accumulated
environmental damage and carbon dioxide emissions (CО2).

1
The

1)

2)

following methodological documents were used to prepare a business plan:
Guidelines to assess effectiveness of investment projects (second edition, revised and amended)
(approved by the Ministry of Economics, Ministry of Finance and State Committee for Construction,
Architectural and Housing Policy of the Russian Federation No. ВК-477 dated June 21, 1999) [6].
UNIDO methods (United Nations Industrial Development Organization) [7].

Brief description of manufacturing process
Scrap and zirconium-containing wastes from different glass-making enterprises
are the raw materials for the factory.
The investment project under review entails the construction of two installations:
First cycle – RUR 74,000,000 (seventy-four million). Dimensions: length – 24m,
width – 18m, height – 18m (hangar-style sandwich structure metal construction)
and acceptance area: length – 24m, width – 18m and height – 18m (hangar metal
construction). The equipment will be installed according to our custom design.
The equipment will be purchased from Ural-Omega, CJSC (ЗАО)
(www.uralomega.ru).
Second cycle – RUR 45,500,000 (forty-five million five hundred thousand).
Dimensions: length – 48m, width – 24m, height – 18m (hangar-style sandwich
structure metal construction). The equipment will be installed according to our
custom design. The equipment will be purchased from SIBMASHPOLYMER Trade
and Manufacturing Company, LLC (OOO) (www.sibmashpolymer.ru).
We intend to build the factory in the industrial area of Magnitogorsk (Agapovskiy
District), Russia [4], where a plot of land with the capacity and communications
appropriate for the Project has already been selected. The estimated purchase
price of the land plot is RUR 40,000,000 (forty million).
Implementation phases of factory building process
A Cyprus-based holding company will loan funds equal to the amount of
investment in ZrCoin options to a Russian legal entity, which will consequently
implement all construction phases of the factory. The subsequent steps of factory
construction process can be divided into the three principal stages described
above.
Online broadcasting of the factory construction process with the use of video
cameras will be arranged for investors, to maintain openness and transparency at
all phases of construction. The cameras will be in place around the construction
site and afterwards in the factory area itself.

Pricing Strategy
The main product of the factory is zirconium concentrate (powder) containing
synthetic ZrО2 of not less than 66% purity, plus Hf 2.5-3%, the aggregate of earth
metals within the limit of 1.5% and synthetic Slag-Forming Mixture (SFM).
Dry enrichment methods and separation of metals are used in the manufacturing
process, which include selective grinding methods, dry magnetic and gravity
separation. The factory’s products will be suitable for the manufacture of
refractory materials in the foundry and chemical industry, and in metallurgy.
The price of the products of the projected factory for production of materials
from zirconium-containing wastes will be defined according to the price of its
foreign analogues, since such materials made from wastes are not produced in
Russia. The essence of the method for price calculation is that the manufacturer
defines the current price of the imported commodity minus 20%, which allows for
a competitive price. Afterwards, he compares the price obtained by calculation to
the price of the closest analogue.
The results of the calculation of minimum price thresholds for the main products
of the factory are detailed in Table 2. As mentioned above, the closest foreignmanufactured material was taken as an analogue.
Table 2
Price thresholds for main products
Item No.

Product Description

1
2

Zirconium concentrate
SFM

Price, RUR/ton
165,000
45,000

Zircon Refractories Market
Zircon-class refractories (zircon, brazilite and brazilite-corundum refractories,
owing to their high refractoriness and corrosion resistance to metal and mineral
melts), refer to materials of high demand in metallurgy and glass manufacturing.
Modern glass-manufacturing technologies cannot exist without brazilitecorundum refractories, and the manufacture of these materials has been
launched in the last decade in Belgium, Australia, India and China.

Companies such as SEPR Group, Imerys, RHI, Zhongheng, Saint-Gobain and others
produce a wide range of zircon refractories for metallurgy and glass
manufacturing. ‘Borovichskiy Refractories Plant’ JSC and ‘Dinur’ JSC produce a
small amount of zircon refractories in Russia.
As there is a lack of domestic zirconium-containing raw materials (zircon and
zirconium dioxide), brazilite-corundum refractories for glass manufacturing
enterprises are chiefly imported from abroad.
Russia’s domestic manufacture covers only 8-10% of the demand in zirconiumcontaining raw materials. Kovdorskiy GOK (Ore Mining and Processing Plant) is
the only enterprise in Russia to produce zirconium raw materials (brazilite
powder), with production output of 5-6 tons per year.
The majority of this amount is exported to Norway, Japan and other countries.
Zirconium concentrate, which is one of the scarcest mineral raw materials, is not
produced in Russia, but is imported from Ukraine and Australia. Russia, ranked 3rd
in zirconium reserves, does not have a single industrially developed operation for
manufacture of zirconium products. Titanium and zirconium deposits can be
developed integrally only with mandatory production of ilmenite (rutile) and
zirconium concentrates, as the industry has a confirmed demand for them. As
titanium and zirconium constitute strategic natural resources, it is crucial to
develop their raw materials base for Russia’s self-reliance.
Russia has known resources of titanium and zirconium alluvial deposits, which in
case of exploration could meet zirconium raw materials domestic demand for
decades. These include Tuganskoye Deposit (Tomsk Region), Lukoyanovskoye
Deposit (Nizhniy Novgorod Region), Tarskoye Deposit (Omsk Region),
Tsentralonoye Deposit (Tambov Region) and Beshpagirskoye Deposit (Stavropol
Territory).
Because of constant rotation of owners, lack of funds and government failures in
the implementation of targeted programs, the aforementioned deposits have
remain industrially non-developed for decades. Given the high costs, first of all
based on comparison of economic indices of development of these deposits, it is
necessary to find the most viable one to arrange industrial manufacture of
zirconium concentrate and zirconium dioxide. The issue of the creation of

titanium and zirconium raw materials base in Russia has a national character, as it
touches upon the economic security of the country as far as provision of
zirconium-containing raw materials to various industries is concerned.
Recycling of zirconium-containing industrial wastes with the help of our
technology is an alternative to global exploration of deposits in Russia, and
application of our technology will help to resolve the problem of the deficit in
zirconium-containing raw materials in the most economical, effective and – most
importantly – fastest way when compared to the development of explored
deposits.

ZrCoin Project Income
Current income related to daily operation of the factory are specified in Table 3.
Table 3
Estimated production incomes from sale of
synthetic zirconium concentrate and SFM
Item No. Index description
1

Production volume of synthetic zirconium concentrate (tons)
Average cost of 1 ton (RUR)

2

Production volume of SFM (tons)
Average cost of 1 ton (RUR)
Total monthly income (RUR)

Value
400
165,000
100
46,000
70,600,000

Note: 1 month is taken as a reference period for calculations.

The estimated monthly yield of the factory’s operation should be RUR 70.6
million.

Project Summary
Environmental Aspects of the Project
The Project details the application of green technology in the manufacturing
process, which will allow for the reduction of direct environmental damage, and
reduction of environmental risks from the results of accumulated environmental
damage.
The key distinctive feature of the green manufacturing process to be employed is
the use of various industrial wastes instead of the raw materials used by current
manufacturers of zirconium dioxide. This recycling model can be extended to
other locations of heavy industry in Russia and abroad.
The technology is easily scaled and can be deployed in any country within 18
months. Investors will be offered to trade ZrCoin options for the Company’s stock
upon drawing audited financial statements for the first reporting period and IPO.
The ZrCoin project, assuming successful implementation, will have a positive
effect on solving issues related to quality of life, the environment and industrial
waste recycling.

Project Summary
Project Team
The ZrCoin Project team comprises innovative developers, chemists,
technologists, expert scientists, managers, and economists with experience in
industry and finance.
Project managers have practical experience in the field of R&D, in such
organisations as Eastern Institute of Refractories, Institute of Geology and
Geochemistry of Ural Branch of Russian Academy of Sciences, Metallurgy
Laboratory of Mining Institute (Yekaterinburg), Ural State Mining and
Technological Academy, ‘MISiS’ National University of Science and Technology,
and others. They have publications, scientific articles, certificates of authorship
and patents in their relevant specialisms, in refractory, metallurgy and chemical
industry, geological engineering and materials science.
Members of the team have been engaged as research advisers in various
geological survey units of Russia, including the 50th Anniversary of USSR Navorskiy
Mountain and Metallurgy Plant, Kachkonarskiy Ore Mining and Processing Plant,
Directorate No. 5 of All-Russia Research and Development Institute of Chemical
Technology.
Members of the team have business contacts with the largest metallurgy and
refractory enterprises in Russia, including the Magnitogorsk Metallurgy Plant,
‘Ogneupor’ Company, ‘Magnesit’ Group, SpetsOgneuporComplekt, Pervouralskiy
Silica Plant (Dinur), Klyuchevskaya Enrichment Plant, Buruktalskiy Nickel Plant,
Lukoil, and Tobolk-Neftekhim.
Our experts have experience of cooperation with industrial, construction, design
and manufacturing companies to attract financing from banking, private and
foreign organizations, and experience of foreign economic activity in the export of
metal-containing materials (for instance, to Canada, England and Germany).

Conclusion
Investors’ participation in the Project entails purchase of the ZrCoin derivative,
which is implemented as a financial instrument on the Waves blockchain platform
[2]. ZrCoin in turn is backed by an industrial commodity, namely synthetic
zirconium dioxide or Synth. ZrО2.
ZrCoin options will be sold at ICO (during stage 1 of the Project in March – April,
2017) and can be bought for USD, bitcoins and other cryptocurrencies.
During the initial days of the sale the option will be offered to potential investors
at a 50% discount from the Zr asset’s cost basis (dynamics are shown in picture 2,
above). The option price will increase steadily in the days to follow.
More detailed information on the terms of investment into the ZrCoin option will
be shown in the profile on the Project’s website [1] and will be available upon
registration as a potential investor.
The described manufacturing technique for Synth. ZrО2 is a striking example of a
rational approach to raw materials. Wastes from existing manufacturing
processes are given a ‘new life’, transforming them into high-quality raw
materials for recycling. Moreover, before the recycling process these wastes were
the products of enriched natural mineral raw materials, which endured chemical
and high-temperature impacts in the course of their use. This resulted in the
synthesis of minerals, destruction of chemical bonds and formation of new ones.
After recycling with the use of this new technology, the zirconium concentrate is
no longer a natural material but is transformed into the synthetic product.
This has an overwhelming advantage over its natural analogue. Refractories and
anti-adhesion coatings made from synthetic zirconium concentrate have longer
service life periods. Also noteworthy are the words of D.I. Mendeleev, spoken
more than a hundred years ago, that one of the ways to make manufacturing
better is to make it wasteless!
That is why the described technology exemplifies the harmony of industry and
nature. Few companies on the planet can boast that industrial development
causes no harm to the environment. Besides, the technologies of industrial and
comprehensive recycling of wastes allow for the resolution of anthropogenic

harm to the planet. It does not matter where manufacturing is located, whether
in Russia or Germany, the Czech Republic or USA. The technology will work in any
country and on any continent. The reason for this is that the final products, socalled ‘manufacturing tails’ (thanks to our technology the word ‘wastes’ are no
longer apt), become materials of high demand both for the refractory industry
and for tertiary metallurgy: the metallurgy of the future!
We have set the ball rolling. Our Project is moving steadily towards generating a
profit whilst concurrently solving a number of environmental issues by the
comprehensive recycling of industrial products. The described technology is not
the only one invented by our team. Holding two ‘golden keys’ in our hands (this is
how we describe our approach), we can open doors to the future of a green
planet, economy and industry, with solutions to many of the current issues
hidden behind those doors.
We are enthusiastic and optimistic about our slogan: ‘We will turn your waste
into money’.

References
[1] ZrCoin.io (Project’s website, web presentation)
[2] https://wavesplatform.com/
[3] http://government.ru/dep_news/25785/
[4] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magnitogorsk (reference to the site plan
(photos on the Project’s website))
[5] http://www.consultant.ru/document/cons_doc_LAW_28224/
[6] http://www.unido.org/fileadmin/import/45322_Vol._I_Ebook.pdf;
http://resourcefinder.ids.ac.uk/Record/72920
*****

